12|some structural and aerelastic considerations of high speed flight .|some structural and aerelastic considerations of high speed flight . the dominating factors in structural design of high-speed aircraft are thermal and aeroelastic in origin . the subject matter is concerned largely with a discussion of these factors and their interrelation with one another . a summary is presented of some of the analytical and experimental tools available to aeronautical engineers to meet the demands of high-speed flight upon aircraft structures . the state of the art with respect to heat transfer from the boundary layer into the structure, modes of failure under combined load as well as thermal inputs and acrothermoelasticity is discussed . methods of attacking and alleviating structural and aeroelastic problems of high-speed flight are summarized . finally, some avenues of fundamental research are suggested .
13|similarity laws for stressing heated wings .|similarity laws for stressing heated wings . it will be shown that the differential equations for a heated plate with large temperature gradient and for a similar plate at constant temperature can be made the same by a proper modification of the thickness and the loading for the isothermal plate . this fact leads to the result that the stresses in the heated plate can be calculated from measured strains on the unheated plate by a series of relations, called the /similarity laws ./ the application of this analog theory to solid wings under aerodynamic heating is discussed in detail . the loading on the unheated analog wing is, however, complicated and involves the novel concept of feedback and /body force/ loading . the problem of stressing a heated box-wing structure can be solved by the same analog method and is briefly discussed .
14|piston theory - a new aerodynamic tool for the aeroelastician .|piston theory - a new aerodynamic tool for the aeroelastician . representative applications are described which illustrate the extent to which simplifications in the solutions of high-speed unsteady aeroelastic problems can be achieved through the use of certain aerodynamic techniques known collectively as /piston theory ./ based on a physical model originally proposed by hayes and lighthill, piston theory for airfoils and finite wings has been systematically developed by landahl, utilizing expansions in powers of the thickness ratio and the inverse of the flight mach number m . when contributions of orders and are negligible, the theory predicts a point-function relationship between the local pressure on the surface of a wing and the normal component of fluid velocity produced by the wing's motion . the computation of generalized forces in aeroelastic equations, such as the flutter determinant, is then always reduced to elementary integrations of the assumed modes of motion . essentially closed-form solutions are given for the bending- torsion and control-surface flutter properties of typical section airfoils at high mach numbers . these agree well with results of more exact theories wherever comparisons can be fairly made . moreover, they demonstrate the increasingly important influence of thickness and profile shape as m grows larger, a discovery that would be almost impossible using other available aerodynamic tools . the complexity of more practical flutter analyses-e.g., on three-dimensional wings and panels-is shown to be substantially reduced by piston theory . an iterative procedure is outlined, by which improved flutter eigenvalues can be found through the successive introduction of higher-order terms in and . other applications to unsteady supersonic problems are reviewed, including gust response and rapid maneuvers of elastic aircraft . steady-state aeroelastic calculations are also discussed, but for them piston theory amounts only to a slight modification of ackeret's formulas . suggestions are made regarding future research based on the new aerodynamic method, with particular emphasis on areas where computational labor can be reduced with a minimum loss of precision . it is pointed out that a mach number zone exists where thermal effects are appreciable but nonlinear viscous interactions may be neglected, and that in this zone piston theory is the logical way of estimating air loads when analyzing aerodynamic- thermoelastic interaction problems .
15|on two-dimensional panel flutter .|on two-dimensional panel flutter . theory and experiments of the flutter of a buckled plate are discussed . it is shown that an increase in the initial deviation from flatness or a static pressure differential across the plate raises the critical value of the /reduced velocity ./ the applicability of the galerkin method to the linearized problem of flutter of an unbuckled plate has been questioned by several authors . in this paper the flutter condition was formulated in the form of an integral equation and solved numerically by the method of iteration and the method of matrix approximations, thus avoiding the constraint of assumed modes . for a plate (with finite bending rigidity) the results confirm those given by the galerkin method . an approximate analysis of the limiting form and amplitude of the flutter motion for a buckled plate is presented .
20|generalised-newtonian theory .|generalised-newtonian theory . author generalizes lees's (amr 10(1957), rev. 2601) modification of newtonian theory for blunt-nose bodies to apply to pointed- nose bodies as well . the result is expressed by sin where is the local inclination of the body surface and the subscript /max/ refers to the maximum local inclination and pressure coefficient . for blunt-nose bodies and the generalized theory reverts to lees's blunt-nose modification with given by normal shock relations . author shows, by comparison of newtonian and generalized-newtonian theory with exact solutions, the superiority of generalized-newtonian theory . he also shows that both two-dimensional and axisymmetric shapes are correlated by this generalization . results are presented in two figures that support author's generalization and indicate the independence of the correlation from variations in both the hypersonic similarity parameter k = m(d1) and the ratio of specific heats y . reviewer believes this generalization should be of interest to those engaged in development of hypersonic hardware as well as theory .
21|on heat transfer in slip flow .|on heat transfer in slip flow . a number of authors have considered the effect of slip on the heat transfer and skin friction in a laminar boundary layer over a flat plate . reference 1 considers this by a perturbation on the usual laminar boundary-layer analysis while some other studies.dash e.g., reference the impulsive motion of an infinite plate .
22|on slip-flow heat transfer to a flat plate .|on slip-flow heat transfer to a flat plate . assuming that continuum flow energy equation in a boundary layer remains valid well into slip region and taking account of the temperature jump in a moving rarefied gas and for influence of large mean free path through appropriate boundary conditions, a solution is found for the temperature gradient in the slip region . then from maslen expression (j. aero. sci. 25, 6, 400-401, june slipping fluid to a flat plate, and behavior confirms results for small values of knudsen number .
29|a simple model study of transient temperature and thermal stress distribution due to aerodynamic heating .|a simple model study of transient temperature and thermal stress distribution due to aerodynamic heating . the present work is concerned with the determination of transient temperatures and thermal stresses in simple models intended to simulate parts or the whole of an aircraft structure of the built- up variety subjected to aerodynamic heating . the first case considered is that of convective heat transfer into one side of a flat plate, representing a thick skin, and the effect of the resulting temperature distribution in inducing thermal stresses associated with bending restraint at the plate edges . numerical results are presented for the transient temperature differentials in the plate when the environment temperature first increases linearly with time and then remains constant, the period of linear increase representing the time of acceleration of the aircraft . corresponding thermal stress information is presented . the second case is that of the wide-flanged i-beam with convective heat transfer into the outer faces of the flanges . numerical results are presented for transient temperature differentials for a wide range of values of the applicable parameters and for an environment temperature variation as described above . corresponding thermal stresses in a beam of infinite length are determined . a theoretical analysis of the stress distribution in a beam of finite length is carried out and numerical results obtained for one case . an experimental investigation of temperatures and stresses in such a beam is described, and results are presented which indicate good agreement with corresponding theoretical results .
30|photo-thermoelastic investigation of transient thermal stresses in a multiweb wing structure .|photo-thermoelastic investigation of transient thermal stresses in a multiweb wing structure . photothermoelastic experiments were performed on a long multiweb wing model for which a theoretical analysis is available in the literature . the experimental procedures utilized to simulate the conditions prescribed in the theory are fully described . correlation of theory and experiment in terms of dimensionless temperature, stress, time, and biot number revealed that the theory predicted values higher than the experimentally observed maximum thermal stresses at the center of the web . detailed temperature measurements in the flange suggested that the major source of this discrepancy can be traced to the one-dimensional heat conduction analysis of the flange employed in the theory .
31|thermal buckling of supersonic wing panels .|thermal buckling of supersonic wing panels . the temperature and thermal stress distributions are analyzed in multicellular supersonic wing structures . a buckling criterion is established for the panels of cover plates subjected to thermal stresses .
37|a new technique for investigating heat transfer and surface phenomena under hypersonic flow conditions .|a new technique for investigating heat transfer and surface phenomena under hypersonic flow conditions . on the forebody of many practically interesting hypersonic vehicles, there is little interaction between the inviscid flow field and the boundary layer . therefore, inviscid flow theory can be used to determine, independent of surface phenomena, the physically interesting quantities such as shock shape, shock detachment distance, sonic line shape, and pressure distribution . furthermore, the pressure distribution so determined can then be used for the study of heat transfer, materials behavior, and other surface phenomena . thus, for these bodies, the prandtl boundary-layer concept can be utilized for the calculation of both the inviscid flow and the boundary-layer behavior . it is the purpose of this note to point out that this concept can also be applied experimentally in order to provide, in conjunction with a conventional hypersonic wind-tunnel air supply, a means for investigating hypersonic heat transfer and surface phenomena under conditions of flight reynolds numbers .
48|supersonic flow at the surface of a circular cone at angle of attack .|supersonic flow at the surface of a circular cone at angle of attack . formulas for the inviscid flow properties on the surface of a cone at angle of attack are derived for use in conjunction with the m.i.t. cone tables . these formulas are based upon an entropy distribution on the cone surface which is uniform and equal to that of the shocked fluid in the windward meridian plane . they predict values for the flow variables which may differ significantly from the corresponding values obtained directly from the cone tables . the differences in the magnitudes of the flow variables computed by the two methods tend to increase with increasing free-stream mach number, cone angle and angle of attack .
51|theory of aircraft structural models subjected to aerodynamic heating and external loads .|theory of aircraft structural models subjected to aerodynamic heating and external loads . the problem of investigating the simultaneous effects of transient aerodynamic heating and external loads on aircraft structures for the purpose of determining the ability of the structure to withstand flight to supersonic speeds is studied . by dimensional analyses it is shown that .. constructed of the same materials as the aircraft will be thermally similar to the aircraft with respect to the flow of heat through the structure will be similar to those of the aircraft when the structural model is constructed at the same temperature as the aircraft . external loads will be similar to those of the aircraft . subjected to heating and cooling that correctly simulate the aerodynamic heating of the aircraft, except with respect to angular velocities and angular accelerations, without requiring determination of the heat flux at each point on the surface and its variation with time . acting on the aerodynamically heated structural model to those acting on the aircraft is determined for the case of zero angular velocity and zero angular acceleration, so that the structural model may be subjected to the external loads required for simultaneous simulation of stresses and deformations due to external loads .
52|procedure for calculating flutter at high supersonic speed including camber deflections, and comparison with experimental results .|procedure for calculating flutter at high supersonic speed including camber deflections, and comparison with experimental results . a method which may be used at high supersonic mach numbers is described for calculating the flutter speed of wings having camber in their deflection modes . the normal coupled vibration modes of the wing are used to derive the equations of motion . chord deflections of the vibration modes are approximated by polynomials . the wing may have a control surface and may carry external stores although no aerodynamic forces on the stores are presented . the aerodynamic forces that are assumed to be acting on the wing are obtained from piston theory and also from a quasi-steady form of a theory for two-dimensional steady flow . airfoil shape and thickness effects are taken account of in the analysis . the method is used to calculate the flutter speed of some wings which had been previously tested at mach numbers of 1.3 to 3.0 . comparison of the calculations and experiment is made for flat-plate 60 and 45 delta wings and also for an untapered 45 sweptback wing .
56|an analysis of the applicability of the hypersonic similarity law to the study of the flow about bodies of revolution at zero angle of attack .|an analysis of the applicability of the hypersonic similarity law to the study of the flow about bodies of revolution at zero angle of attack . the hypersonic similarity law as derived by tsien has been investigated by comparing the pressure distributions along bodies of revolution at zero angle of attack . in making these comparisons, particular attention was given to determining the limits of mach number and fineness ratio for which the similarity law applies . for the purpose of this investigation, pressure distributions determined by the method of characteristics for ogive cylinders for values of mach numbers and fineness ratios varying from 1.5 to 12 were compared . pressures on various cones and on cone cylinders were also compared in this study . the pressure distributions presented demonstrate that the hypersonic similarity law is applicable over a wider range of values of mach numbers and fineness ratios than might be expected from the assumptions made in the derivation . this is significant since within the range of applicability of the law a single pressure distribution exists for all similarly shaped bodies for which the ratio of free-stream mach number to fineness ratio is constant . charts are presented for rapid determination of pressure distributions over ogive cylinders for any combination of mach number and fineness ratio within defined limits .
57|applicability of the hypersonic similarity rule to pressure distributions which include the effects of rotation for bodies of revolution at zero angle of attack .|applicability of the hypersonic similarity rule to pressure distributions which include the effects of rotation for bodies of revolution at zero angle of attack . the analysis of technical note 2250, 1950, is extended to include the effects of flow rotation . it is found that the theoretical pressure distributions over ogive cylinders can be related by the hypersonic similarity rule with sufficient accuracy for most engineering purposes . the error introduced into pressure distributions and drag of ogive cylinders by ignoring the rotation term in the characteristic equations is investigated . it is found that the influence of the rotation term on pressure distribution and drag depends only upon the similarity parameter k (mach number divided by fineness ratio) . although the error in drag, due to neglect of the rotation term, is negligible at k=0.5, the error is about 30 percent at k=2.0 . charts are presented for the rapid determination of pressure distributions for rotational flow over ogive cylinders for all values of the similarity parameter between 0.5 and of mach number and fineness ratio .
58|pressure measurements on sharp and blunt 5 and 15 half-angle cones at mach number 3.86 and angles of attack to 100 .|pressure measurements on sharp and blunt 5 and 15 half-angle cones at mach number 3.86 and angles of attack to 100 . measured pressure distributions on cones are compared with modified newtonian theory . deviations as large as 14 percent of the stagnation pressure behind a normal shock are found . by combining empirical results for cylinders normal to the flow with newtonian concepts, a method of calculating pressures on cones at high angles of attack is developed . calculations by this method differ from the experimental results on sharp cones by only 2 percent of the stagnation pressure behind a normal shock . for blunted cones, additional deviations up to 8 percent are noted near the nose . schlieren pictures of the flow show an attached shock on the sharp of attack . detachment of the shock appears to be associated with the attainment of sonic speed immediately behind the shock . an orifice size effect is found which can increase the indicated pressure above the true value, if the orifice width is greater than one-tenth the local radius of curvature .
64|unsteady oblique interaction of a shock wave with plane disturbances .|unsteady oblique interaction of a shock wave with plane disturbances . analysis is made of the flow field produced by oblique impingement of weak plane disturbances of arbitrary profile on a plane normal shock . three types of disturbance are considered .. moves . the sound wave refracts either as a simple isentropic sound wave or as an attenuating isentropic pressure wave, depending on the angle between the shock and the incident sound wave . a stationary vorticity wave of constant pressure appears behind the shock . reflects as a sound wave, and a stationary vorticity wave is produced . the shock . the incident wave refracts as a stationary vorticity wave, and either a sound wave or attenuating pressure wave is also produced . computations are presented for the first two types of incident wave, over the range of incidence angles, for shock mach numbers of 1, 1.5, and .
65|convection of a pattern of vorticity through a shock wave .|convection of a pattern of vorticity through a shock wave . an arbitrary weak spatial distribution of vorticity can be represented in terms of plane sinusoidal shear waves of all orientations and wave lengths (fourier integral) . the analysis treats the passage of a single representative weak shear wave through a plane shock and shows refraction and modification of the shear wave with simultaneous generation of an acoustically intense sound wave . applications to turbulence and to noise in supersonic wind tunnels are indicated .
66|some effects of joint conductivity on the temperature and thermal stresses in aerodynamically heated skin-stiffener combinations .|some effects of joint conductivity on the temperature and thermal stresses in aerodynamically heated skin-stiffener combinations . temperatures and thermal stresses in typical skin-stiffener combinations of winglike structures subjected to aerodynamic heating have been obtained with the aid of an electronic differential analyzer . variations were made in an aerodynamic heat-transfer parameter, in a joint conductivity parameter, and in the ratio of skin width to skin thickness . the results, which are presented in nondimensional form, indicate that decreasing the joint conductivity parameter lowers both the interior and the average temperature ratios, increases the peak thermal stress ratios in the skin, and may considerably increase the peak stiffener stress ratios,. increasing the aerodynamic heat-transfer parameter decreases the interior and average temperature ratios, increases the peak skin stress ratios somewhat, but greatly increases the peak stiffener stress ratios,. and increasing the ratio of skin width to skin thickness produces only moderate decreases in the peak skin stress ratios while moderately increasing the peak stiffener stress ratios .
86|inviscid-incompressible flow theory of static peripheral jets in proximity to the ground .|inviscid-incompressible flow theory of static peripheral jets in proximity to the ground . an /exact/ flow theory of peripheral jets issuing symmetrically from a hovering aerial-ground vehicle is presented . the theory is exact insofar as no simplifying assumptions have been made in obtaining a solution of the governing inviscid, two-dimensional hydrodynamical flow equations . the results are valid for all jet thickness vehicle height ratios . the limit of applicability of existing theories (very low thickness height ratios) are defined . jet reaction, lift, and power coefficients for static conditions are introduced and computed . lift augmentation and lift power ratios are also calculated . applications to three-dimensional vehicles with rotational symmetry are indicated .
95|temperature distribution and thermal stresses in a model of a supersonic wing .|temperature distribution and thermal stresses in a model of a supersonic wing . the transient temperature distribution and the thermal stresses in an idealized wing structure considered by hoff and torda in reference 1 are determined . only the effects of aerodynamic heating and of heat conduction are included,. radiation and convection effects are neglected . the present work differs from that of reference 1 in that the conduction from the cap to the web is considered when the temperature of the cap is calculated, and the spar cap temperature is assumed to be a function of both space and time . graphs of temperature and thermal stress distributions are presented, and the results are compared with those of reference 1 .
102|advantages and limitations of models .|advantages and limitations of models . summary .. the use of models for structural test investigations in the presence of kinetic heating effects is examined . the principal features of the complex process to be represented are discussed under the classifications external air flow, internal heat transfer, elastic response . of these the second is found to influence most model design, and an analysis of a typical structure is included to illustrate the various contributions to internal heat transfer .
122|a simplified approximate method for the calculation of the pressure around conical bodies of arbitrary shape in supersonic and hypersonic flow .|a simplified approximate method for the calculation of the pressure around conical bodies of arbitrary shape in supersonic and hypersonic flow . exact conical-flow solutions are available only for circular cones at zero angle of attack . for nonaxisymmetric cones or cones at angle of attack, only approximate methods exist . these methods are generally quite complicated and further limited to certain body shapes or certain mach-number ranges . a great need was therefore felt for a simple approximate method applicable to any arbitrarily shaped conical body at zero incidence as well as at angle of attack . such a method has been developed recently at lockheed and is presented here in abbreviated form . the method is based on the /equivalent-cone/ theory . this theory determines the pressure on a conical body utilizing information for a symmetric cone at zero angle of attack with the same normal component of the free stream with respect to the surface as the local element of the body considered . this method works relatively well at high mach numbers . however, it is quite inconsistent at lower mach numbers, especially for bodies which deviate considerably from circular cones . the equivalent-cone method does not give satisfactory results, mainly due to the fact that it considers only the local surface element on the body independent of the other body elements in the newtonian-theory manner .
142|the problem of aerodynamic heating .|the problem of aerodynamic heating . paper is a good review of knowledge to date on convective heat transfer to objects moving through air at low and high speeds . theoretical and experimental information is given on recovery factors and heat-transfer coefficients for isothermal surfaces of unswept flat plates, wedges and cones with attached shock waves, and stagnation points of blunt bodies of revolution, for both laminar and turbulent boundary layers . a convenient nomograph for calculating flat plate turbulent boundary-layer heat-transfer coefficients is given . effects of surface cooling, surface roughness, and supply stream turbulence on transition are discussed and shown graphically .
166|flow of chemically reacting gas mixtures .|flow of chemically reacting gas mixtures . suitable forms of the equations for the flow of an inviscid, non-heat-conducting gas in which chemical reactions are occurring are derived . the effects of mass diffusion and non-equilibrium amongst the internal modes of the molecules are neglected . special attention is given to the speeds of sound in such a gas mixture and a general expression for the ratio of frozen to equilibrium sound speeds is deduced . an example is given for the ideal dissociating gas . the significance of the velocity defined by the ratio of the convective derivatives of pressure and density is explained . it is the velocity which exists at the throat of a convergent-divergent duct under maximum mass flow conditions, and it is shown that this velocity depends on the nozzle geometry as well as on the 'reservoir' conditions . as an illustration the phenomena of sound absorption and dispersion are discussed for the ideal dissociating gas . the results can be concisely expressed in terms of the frozen and equilibrium sound speeds, the frequency of the (harmonic) sound vibration and a characteristic time for the rate of progress of the reaction .
184|scale models for thermo-aeroelastic research .|scale models for thermo-aeroelastic research . an investigation is made of the parameters to be satisfied for thermo-aeroelastic similarity . it is concluded that complete similarity obtains only when aircraft and model are identical in all respects, including size . by limiting consideration to conduction effects, by assuming the major load carrying parts of the structure are in regions where the flow is either entirely laminar, or entirely turbulent, and by assuming a specific relationship between reynolds number and nusselt number, an approach to similarity can be achieved for small scale models . experimental and analytical work is required to check on the validity of these assumptions . it appears that existing hot wind tunnels will not be completely adequate for thermo-aeroelastic work, and accordingly a possible layout for the type of tunnel required is described . automatic programmed control of the tunnel would appear to be necessary .
185|some possibilities of using gas mixtures other than in aerodynamic research .|some possibilities of using gas mixtures other than in aerodynamic research . a study is made of the advantages that can be realized in compressible-flow research by employing a substitute heavy gas in place of air . most heavy gases considered in previous investigations are either toxic, chemically active, or (as in the case of the freons) have a ratio of specific heats greatly different from air . the present report is based on the idea that by properly mixing a heavy monatomic gas with a suitable heavy polyatomic gas, it is possible to obtain a heavy gas mixture which has the correct ratio of specific heats and which is nontoxic, nonflammable, thermally stable, chemically inert, and comprised of commercially available components . calculations were made of wind-tunnel characteristics for 63 gas pairs comprising 21 different polyatomic gases properly mixed with each of three monatomic gases (argon, krypton, and xenon) . for a given mach number, reynolds number, and tunnel pressure, a gas-mixture wind tunnel having the same specific-heat ratio as air would be appreciably smaller and would require much less power than a corresponding air wind tunnel . analogous though different advantages can be realized in compressor research and in firing-range research . the most significant applications, perhaps, arise through selecting and proportioning a gas mixture so as to have at ordinary wind-tunnel temperatures certain dimensionless characteristics which air at flight temperatures possesses but which air at ordinary wind-tunnel temperatures does not possess . characteristics which involve the relaxation time (or bulk viscosity), the variation of viscosity with temperature, and the variation of specific heat with temperature fall within this category . other applications arise in heat-transfer research since certain gas mixtures can be concocted to have any prandtl number in the range at least between 0.2 and 0.8 .
194|general theory of airfoil sections having arbitrary shape or pressure distribution .|general theory of airfoil sections having arbitrary shape or pressure distribution . in this report a theory of thin airfoils of small camber is developed which permits either the velocity distribution corresponding to a given airfoil shape, or the airfoil shape corresponding to a given velocity distribution to be calculated . the procedures to be employed in these calculations are outlined and illustrated with suitable examples .
195|correlation of theoretical and photo-thermoelastic results on thermal stresses in idealized wing structure .|correlation of theoretical and photo-thermoelastic results on thermal stresses in idealized wing structure . after a rather complete exploratory program described in previous papers, the photo-thermoelastic method was applied to the experimental evaluation of the thermal-stress theories . the new technique was correlated with several theories which analyzed the transient thermal stresses in idealized wing structures of high-speed aircraft . various theories were investigated which represented the same idealized wing models and differed from each other only in the simplifying assumptions regarding the temperature distributions in skin and webs . the theories were evaluated by duplicating the boundary and initial conditions on plastic models and then by correlating the theories with the observed fringe orders in nondimensional form . a significant general conclusion was reached after correlating the available theories and experimental results . owing to simplifying assumptions concerning the thermal behavior in the flanges, thermal stresses predicted by the available theories are all higher than the experimental observation . in some cases the discrepancy is as great as 30 per cent .
196|pressure distributions . axially symmetric bodies in oblique flow .|pressure distributions . axially symmetric bodies in oblique flow . a simple picture, known from the work of i. lotz, of the flow over the forward part of a body of revolution in oblique flow is derived here from entirely elementary considerations . the pressure at any point of the (forward part of the) body at any angle of incidence depends on three parameters whose values vary along the body . the variation of these parameters along the body can be determined from a relatively small number of wind tunnel or water tunnel measurements . the necessary water tunnel measurements have been made for four axially symmetric head shapes . additional measurements have been made to illustrate the theoretical conclusions . the data for each head shape are adequate for a determination of the pressure coefficient at any point on the head shapes at any angle of incidence (up to 6, say) . in particular they can be used to determine the peak suction at any angle of incidence and so the conditions for the onset of cavitation on the head .
197|pressure distributions on three bodies of revolution to determine the effect of reynolds number up to and including the transonic speed range .|pressure distributions on three bodies of revolution to determine the effect of reynolds number up to and including the transonic speed range . this paper presents the results of an investigation conducted in the langley 16-foot transonic tunnel to determine the effects of varying reynolds number on the pressure distribution on a transonic body of revolution at angles of attack through the transonic speed range . the effect of a change in sting cone angle on the pressure distributions and a comparison of experimental incremental pressures with theory is also included . the models were tested through a mach number range from 0.60 to 1.09 . the reynolds number range based on body length was from 9 x 10 to 39 x diameter was 1.3 x 10 to 4.53 x 10 for the model at 8 angle of attack . an increase in reynolds number from 9 x 10 to 39 x 10 affected the longitudinal pressure distributions very slightly . these effects were of such a nature as to cause an increase of 0.05 in the normal-force coefficient of the body when tested in the subcritical cross-flow reynolds number range . this increase is in agreement with theoretical approximations . a comparison between experimental and theoretical values of the incremental pressure coefficient due to angle of attack indicated good agreement except at angles where separated flow areas existed over the body . the effect of a change in sting-cone angle from 5 to 9 on the pressure distribution of the 120-inch model was negligible up to a mach number of 1.05 . at this mach number the effect was to cause a small increase in the velocity over the rear of the body .
198|investigation of a systematic group of naca 1 - series cowlings with and without spinners .|investigation of a systematic group of naca 1 - series cowlings with and without spinners . an investigation has been conducted in the langley propeller-research tunnel to study cowling-spinner combinations based on the naca 1-series nose inlets and to obtain systematic design data for one family of approximately ellipsoidal spinners . in the main part of the investigation, 11 of the related spinners were tested in various combinations with 9 naca open-nose cowlings, which were also tested without spinners . the effects of location and shape of the spinner, shape of the inner surface of the cowling lip, and operation of a propeller having approximately oval shanks were investigated briefly . in addition, a study was conducted to determine the correct procedure for extrapolating design conditions determined from the low-speed test data to the design conditions at the actual flight mach number . the design conditions for the naca 1-series cowlings and cowling-spinner combinations are presented in the form of charts from which, for wide ranges of spinner proportions and rates of internal flow, cowlings with near-maximum pressure recovery can be selected for critical mach numbers ranging from spinners and the effects of the spinners and the propeller on the cowling design conditions are presented separately to provide initial quantitative data for use in a general design procedure through which naca 1-series cowlings can be selected for use with spinners of other shapes . by use of this general design procedure, correlation curves established from the test data, and derived compressible-flow equations relating the inlet-velocity ratio to the surface pressures on the cowling and spinner, naca 1-series cowlings and cowling-spinner combinations can be designed for critical mach numbers as high as 0.90 .
202|aircraft flutter .|aircraft flutter . the term flutter is used here to denote maintained or violent oscillations of a structure due to aerodynamic forces acting in conjunction with both elastic and inertial forces . attention is restricted to this particular branch of the more general field of aeroelasticity, which embraces buffeting, divergence, and reversal of control, as well as flutter,. airscrew flutter is not specifically considered . the monograph is divided into three main parts, each of which has been made self-contained for the convenience of readers . in the first part, general methods for the investigation of aircraft flutter, by theoretical analysis and by experiments on flutter models, are set out and discussed . a detailed account of the aerodynamic theory of wings in non-uniform motion is not included, since this has already been provided elsewhere, but methods for the evaluation of the aerodynamic forces required in a theoretical flutter analysis are logically developed, and a bibliography of researches on the aerodynamic theory is given in the appendix . investigations on specific types of aircraft flutter--namely wing flutter, control surface flutter, and tab flutter--are discussed in part these various types of flutter are considered, but the practical details of flutter-prevention devices are omitted . finally, in part 3, methods for the experimental determination of airloads on oscillating aerofoil systems are described, and available airload measurements are analysed and compared with theoretical results . an attempt has been made to refer in the text to all relevant british work reported by the early part of 1947 . foreign work has been mentioned in parts 1 and 2 only where necessary for the sake of completeness, but in part 3 and the appendix all relevant foreign references known to the author have been included . matrix notation has been used for the theoretical treatment in part 1, but otherwise its use has been avoided .
236|criteria for thermodynamic equilibrium in gas flow .|criteria for thermodynamic equilibrium in gas flow . when gases flow at high velocity, the rates of internal processes may not be fast enough to maintain thermodynamic equilibrium . by defining quasi-equilibrium in flow as the condition in which the temperature, pressure, density, and velocity deviate by less than a fixed, small percentage from what they would be if the flowing gas could actually be in thermodynamic equilibrium, criteria are derived for determining whether quasi-equilibrium is a stable condition in the flow . by use of excitation of molecular vibration as an example, the general properties of criteria curves are discussed and interpreted . a discussion is given of how to use these results to determine definitely whether a flow is or is not in thermodynamic equilibrium . applications to dissociating gases, to mixtures, and to the phenomenon of /choking/ in a laval nozzle are given special consideration . for cases when application of the criteria predict nonequilibrium, equations are provided in a form useful for numerical forward integration along streamlines .
259|second order theory for unsteady supersonic flow past slender pointed bodies of revolution .|second order theory for unsteady supersonic flow past slender pointed bodies of revolution . the thermodynamic properties (z = pv rt, e rt, h rt, s r, and pressure) are given for equilibrium mixtures of dissociated and ionized molecules and atoms of the elements nitrogen and oxygen having the low temperature composition of .78847 n and .21153 o . the tabulated properties of this mixture (a close approximation to the properties of air) are given at close intervals from 2000 to and 10 times the normal density . the results are based on chemical equilibria between the species o, o, n, n, no, no, no, no, o, o, o, o, n, n, n and electrons . the method of presentation permits later corrections for the effect of argon and co and the contribution of intermolecular forces . the calculations are based on 9.758 e.v. as the dissociation energy of molecular nitrogen and 1.45 e.v. as the electron affinity of atomic oxygen .
265|some instabilities arising from the interaction between shock waves and boundary layer .|some instabilities arising from the interaction between shock waves and boundary layer . a brief review is made of the available information concerning the flow fluctuations and instabilities arising from shock-induced separation in the flow over aerofoils and wings . the influence this phenomenon has on the oscillatory behaviour of aerofoils and control surfaces is also briefly discussed . a more detailed consideration is devoted to a recent investigation at the n.p.l. into the part played by shock-induced separation in the instability of a control surface .
285|on the flutter of panels at high mach numbers .|on the flutter of panels at high mach numbers . there have recently arisen some questions as to the possibility of panel flutter at high dynamic pressures and mach numbers . in addition, some doubts have been raised about the convergence of the galerkin method when applied to such problems . this note is intended to shed light on these matters .
302|approximations for the thermodynamic and transport properties of high temperature air .|approximations for the thermodynamic and transport properties of high temperature air . the thermodynamic and transport properties of high-temperature air are found in closed form starting from approximate partition functions for the major components in air and neglecting all minor components . the compressibility, enthalpy, entropy, the specific heats, the speed of sound, the coefficients of viscosity and of thermal conductivity, and the prandtl numbers for air are tabulated from 500degree to 15,000degree k over a range of pressure from 0.0001 to 100 atmospheres . the energy of air and the mol fractions of the major components of air can be found from the tabulated values for compressibility and enthalpy . it is predicted that the prandtl number for fully ionized air, which is in complete equilibrium, will become small compared to unity, the order of transparent to heat flux .
311|a method for predicting the onset of buffeting and other separation effects from wind tunnel tests on rigid models .|a method for predicting the onset of buffeting and other separation effects from wind tunnel tests on rigid models . the method is based on the observation of the divergence that occurs in the variation of mean static pressure at the trailing edge of an aircraft wing at the critical stage in the development of boundary-layer separation when its influence first spreads to the trailing edge and thereby to the overall flow . the significance of the trailing-edge pressure variations and their connection with the effects that separation has on the mean and unsteady loads is discussed for various types of separation . good prediction can be obtained from wind-tunnel tests, or warning provided in flight, for low-speed separations and for shock-induced ones up to the stage at which the shock wave reaches the trailing edge . related divergences in wake width, lift coefficient, or shock position can also be used . pressure measurements at other isolated points often indicate the type of separation . certain special considerations apply for swept wings . the various flow changes that are considered are illustrated by schlieren photographs and described in an appendix .
354|laminar heat-transfer and pressure measurements over blunt-nosed cones at large angle of attack .|laminar heat-transfer and pressure measurements over blunt-nosed cones at large angle of attack . tests have been conducted at a mach number of 6, in the pibal hypersonic facility, in order to determine the heat-transfer and pressure distributions over a slender blunted cone at angles of attack of erature ratio, stagnation to wall, was approximately 2.3 . the model tested has a sperical nose diameter of 1.0 in., a base diameter of 3.75 in., and a cone half-angle of 20 degrees . the measurements were made at 5 peripheral stations on the model . in this note the experimental results at a 15 degree angle of attack are presented . a more detailed analysis of the results for all angles of attack is presented in reference 1 .
360|lift on inclined bodies of revolution in hypersonic flow .|lift on inclined bodies of revolution in hypersonic flow . the importance of body lift lies in the fact that at moderate angles of attack and high mach number it can constitute an appreciable part of the total lift of a winged missile . in this paper an attempt has been made to analyze body lift in hypersonic flow by an approximate method and, together with a correlation of existing experimental data, to indicate the probable variation of body lift over a wide range of mach numbers extending from low supersonic to hypersonic . the method of analysis of hypersonic flow over inclined bodies of revolution employed herein has been denoted as the hypersonic approximation . it is an improvement on the newtonian corpuscular theory of aerodynamics, since it considers the centrifugal forces resulting from the curved paths of the air particles in addition to the impact /newtonian/ forces .
378|engineering relations for friction and heat transfer to surfaces in high velocity flow .|engineering relations for friction and heat transfer to surfaces in high velocity flow . in calculations of thermodynamic heating for high speed missiles parameters have been used based on relationships which hold for constant-property fluids . the validity of this procedure has been verified recently in a survey of heat transfer in which a relationship for the reference temperature was developed . a calculation procedure for laminar and turbulent boundary layers, based on this relationship, is given .
380|effect of quasi-steady air forces on incompressible bending-torsion flutter .|effect of quasi-steady air forces on incompressible bending-torsion flutter . explicit solutions are obtained for the bending-torsion flutter of a two-dimensional airfoil in incompressible flow under the assumptions that the theodorsen function, c(k) is set equal to a real constant, and the diagonal virtual mass terms are negligible . for the case of small bending to torsion frequency ratio, a comparison is made of these quasi-steady solutions with an earlier empirical expression suggested by theodorsen and garrick for the nonsteady case, and the effect of the c(k) function is indicated . the importance of the c.g. location for these small cases is re-emphasized, and the possibility of flutter at zero air speed is indicated .
390|some panel-flutter studies using piston theory .|some panel-flutter studies using piston theory . the use of piston theory was recently advocated for supersonic aeroelastic analyses, including the problem of panel flutter, and this has stimulated the investigation reported here . linear piston theory is mainly considered, but some effects of introducing higher order terms are discussed . flutter of rectangular simply supported panels and of elliptically shaped clamped-edge panels is considered, and some justification is provided for the use of /static/ aerodynamic forces and the neglect of aerodynamic damping . hence, it is concluded that ackeret loading gives more exact results than piston theory . solution of the flutter equations is made by applying galerkin's method to a rayleigh-type analysis using assumed modes of deformation .
391|flutter of rectangular simply supported panels at high supersonic speeds .|flutter of rectangular simply supported panels at high supersonic speeds . the problem of panel flutter of rectangular simply supported plates subjected to supersonic flow over one surface is treated theoretically . the assumption is made, and subsequently verified, that the /static/ approximation to the aerodynamic flutter forces yields flutter boundaries with satisfactory accuracy for mach numbers greater than about 2 . two panel flutter analyses are performed using this static approximation in conjunction with thin-plate theory--one employs aerodynamic strip theory, the other aerodynamic surface theory . the influence of mach number, dynamic pressure, panel aspect ratio, and midplane stress on the panel thickness required to prevent flutter is determined for extensive ranges of these parameters .
405|tables of thermal properties of gases .|tables of thermal properties of gases . tables of thermodynamic and transport properties of air, argon, carbon dioxide, carbon monoxide, hydrogen, nitrogen, oxygen, and steam .
436|heat transfer in planetary atmospheres at super-satellite speeds .|heat transfer in planetary atmospheres at super-satellite speeds . the main purpose of this investigation is to examine the dependence of heat transfer in planetary atmospheres on the total enthalpy up to flight velocities of 50,000 ft/sec where a large proportion of the atoms are ionized . the /total thermodynamic and transport property/ concept discussed by hirshfelder /j.chem.phys.,26/2/,feb.,1957/ is used .
437|hypervelocity stagnation point heat transfer .|hypervelocity stagnation point heat transfer . this analysis includes the specific contributions of atoms, molecules, tions are .. /i/ partially ionized air can be approximated as a four-component gas including n2, n, n and e,. /ii/ the gas is in local thermochemical equilibrium,. /iii/ there is no charge separation,. /iv/ thermal diffusion is neglected,. /v/ no electrical or magnetic fields,. low re effects are neglected .
438|stagnation point heat transfer measurements at super satellite speeds .|stagnation point heat transfer measurements at super satellite speeds . brief description of experiments performed by using shock tube techniques for measurement of the stagnation point heating of a blunt body over a stagnation enthalpy range of 650 to 900, corresponding to velocities between 32,000 ft. per sec. and 39,000 ft per sec., respectively . data thus provided are used for comparison with theory .
442|some effects of variations in several parameters including fluid density on the flutter speed of light uniform cantilever wings .|some effects of variations in several parameters including fluid density on the flutter speed of light uniform cantilever wings . an experimental investigation has been made of some effects of variations in several parameters, including fluid density, on the flutter characteristics of light uniform cantilever wings . the assortment of wings tested covered a variety of positions of the elastic axis and center of gravity and values of the aspect ratio of 8, 6, and 4 . the relative-density parameter (where k is representative of the ratio of fluid density to wing mass) was varied over a range of values from 1.2 to nearly 14 . special emphasis has been placed on the lower values . the experimental investigation has been supplemented by an analytical investigation based on the two-dimensional aerodynamic theory for incompressible flow . in a few instances corrections for the effects of finite span have been made . in general, the theoretical results followed the trends indicated by experiment except at very low values of the relative-density parameter . for these low values the analytical considerations employed indicated a freedom from flutter not found experimentally . at higher values of the flutter-speed coefficient is shown to decrease with decreasing values of and to be nearly proportional to the inverse of the square root of the air density .
462|photo-thermoelasticity .|photo-thermoelasticity . this paper summarizes the optical and physical properties of the photoelastic model material paraplex p-43 over the temperature range from room temperature to -40 f . descriptions are presented of techniques and equipment developed to obtain the modulus of elasticity, the material fringe value, and the thermal-expansion coefficient as a function of temperature . experimental investigations were conducted into the plane-stress problems of a disk contracting upon an elastic inclusion and the transient thermal-stress field produced by a temperature differential suddenly applied to the upper edge of a long beam . the data are correlated with theory using the material properties obtained in the calibration phase . also included are photographic results of an exploratory investigation of the thermal-shock phenomenon produced by the sudden application of a temperature differential upon plastic beams of various length-depth ratios .
463|physical properties of plastics for photo-thermoelastic investigation .|physical properties of plastics for photo-thermoelastic investigation . the optical and physical properties of paraplex p43, castolite, and epoxy resin hysol 6000-op, which are potentially of interest in photothermoelastic investigations, were investigated over a temperature range from +100 to -60 f . results on the thermal-expansion coefficient, the material fringe value, and the modulus of elasticity as functions of temperature are presented . also evaluated were thermal properties of importance in heat conduction . photothermoelastic figures of merit, which rate the optical sensitivity of materials in photothermoelastic applications, as well as a new method to determine this figure in a relative manner are presented .
497|theoretical and experimental investigation of thermal stresses in hypersonic aircraft wing structures .|theoretical and experimental investigation of thermal stresses in hypersonic aircraft wing structures . a simple and relatively accurate analytic approximation is developed to determine the temperature and thermal-stress distribution in aircraft wing structures . theoretical investigations show that the results of the existing thermal-stress theories which neglect the temperature gradient through the skin thickness may exceed, in the range of higher biot numbers, the true values by more than 30 percent . refined photothermoelastic experiments verify these results and add another significant conclusion . they indicate that thermal stresses in wing structures generated by a variable heat-transfer coefficient coincide with the theoretical predictions which are based on a constant heat-transfer coefficient, as long as the latter represents the arithmetic average over the heating cycle and the variation is in the order of 10 percent . however, even much greater variations in the order of 100 percent produce only relatively small differences .
550|laminar heat transfer in tubes under slip-flow conditions .|laminar heat transfer in tubes under slip-flow conditions . the effects of low-density phenomena on the fully developed heat-transfer characteristics for laminar flow in tubes has been studied analytically . consideration is given to the slip-flow regime wherein the major rarefaction effects are manifested as velocity and temperature jumps at the tube wall . the analysis is carried out for both uniform wall temperature and uniform wall heat flux . in both cases, the slip-flow nusselt numbers are lower than those for continuum flow and decrease with increasing mean free path . extension of the results is made to include the effects of shear work at the wall, temperature jump modifications for a moving fluid, and thermal creep .
643|an investigation of wing-aileron flutter using ground launched rocket models .|an investigation of wing-aileron flutter using ground launched rocket models . control surface flutter of the wing torsion-control rotation type has been investigated for an unswept wing with an under-massbalanced, half span, outboard aileron . thirteen pairs of wings were tested, using ground launched rocket driven vehicles, and a range of values of aileron natural frequency was covered . the test results showed considerable scatter, but enabled upper and lower limits of a flutter boundary to be determined approximately . it was established that aileron flutter could be eliminated on the models tested provided the aileron frequency exceeded the wing torsional frequency by 20 per cent or more . in this condition the models were also free from single degree of freedom flutter
649|the hovercraft - a new concept in maritime transport .|the hovercraft - a new concept in maritime transport . the hovercraft is the first operational british project in the ground-effect machine field . although there has, for a number of years, been a tentative searching after the principles underlying such machines, it is only now that their possibilities as commercial transport and service craft are beginning to be developed . since the hovercraft is a new vehicle, the appearance of the saunders-roe sr-n1, a manned experimental craft, excited considerable public attention and there have been a number of descriptive articles in the press . papers of a more technical type, on ground-effect machines, are now beginning to appear and it is to be expected that these will rapidly increase in number, especially since american interest in both the commercial and defence fields is expanding fast . the authors of the present paper have, therefore, concentrated attention upon features about which they had something personal to say, and which they consider to be of particular significance for assessing the possibility of the hovercraft becoming important in maritime transport . these features are ..- the hovercraft as a fundamentally new principle in the transport field . the powering requirements and resistance characteristics . the likely operating costs of hovercraft in comparison with other forms of maritime transport . in addition, relatively brief descriptions of the history and the current work being undertaken on the ground-effect machine and of the design, construction, and testing of the saunders-roe sr-n1 are provided . the final section discusses outstanding problems and some future possibilities .
650|some design problems of hovercraft .|some design problems of hovercraft . analysis of the influence various aerodynamic parameters have on the performance of a simple peripheral jet system . power weight ratio, lift drag ratio, and effect of jet angles and thickness are each considered . structural requirements, optimum cushion pressure, and dynamic stability over waves are examined and then related to the economics of ground-effect machine operation .
652|pressure distribution on two dimensional wings near the ground .|pressure distribution on two dimensional wings near the ground . a simple method of calculating the pressure distribution in incompressible flow on two-dimensional aerofoils of arbitrary section at moderate distances from the ground is developed . comparisons with an /exact/ potential flow solution, and with measurements on a 10 thick aerofoil of rae.101 section, provide a satisfactory verification of the adequacy of the method ,. but it is shown that it is necessary to take account of the boundary layer on the aerofoil in the calculations .
658|review of panel flutter and effects of aerodynamic noise part i.. panel flutter .|review of panel flutter and effects of aerodynamic noise part i.. panel flutter . with the development of high-speed aircraft and missiles, vibration of panels has become a problem of practical significance . many of the failures of the early german rockets after attaining supersonic speed have been attributed to the development of such panel oscillations . it appears this phenomenon is not of much concern in the subsonic speed range., however, in the supersonic speed range panels may develop oscillations which cause instability of the structure . this effect has been exhibited experimentally under controlled laboratory conditions motion is limited and buckling may not be a serious design problem . in these cases panel flutter is still of importance because of its effect on the fatigue life and the allowable stresses for design of the panel material . the oscillations of panels may be due either to aerodynamic force induced by the motion of the panel, or to aerodynamic noise, or buffeting (irregular motion induced by turbulence in the flow) . the interaction between aerodynamic forces and panel motions, usually referred to as /panel flutter,/ has been investigated by several workers in recent years . since the problem is too complex to be dealt with in its entirety, simplifying assumptions have been made in these investigations . the literature is marked by a certain degree of controversy over the validity of these assumptions and the applicability of the results obtained . a brief review of the literature with reference to several of the approximations made and the results obtained follows .
746|aeroelastic problems in connection with high speed flight .|aeroelastic problems in connection with high speed flight . a review is given of developments in the field of aeroelasticity during the past ten years . the effect of steadily increasing mach number has been two-fold .. on the one hand the aerodynamic derivatives have changed, and in some cases brought new problems, and on the other hand the design for higher mach numbers has led to thinner aerofoils and more slender fuselages for which the required stiffness is more difficult to provide . both these aspects are discussed, and various methods of attack on the problems are considered . the relative merits of stiffness, damping and massbalance for the prevention of control surface flutter are discussed . a brief mention is made of the recent problems of damage from jet efflux and of the possible aeroelastic effects of kinetic heating .
856|some experimental studies of panel flutter at mach 1 .3.|some experimental studies of panel flutter at mach 1 .3. experimental studies of panel flutter were conducted at a mach number of 1.3 to verify the existence of this phenomenon and to study the effects of some structural parameters on the flutter characteristics . thin rectangular metal plates were used in these studies and were mounted as a section of the tunnel wall . most of the data were obtained by using aluminum-alloy panels, although a few steel, magnesium, and brass panels were also used . different materials with various thicknesses and lengths were used to determine the effect of these parameters on panel flutter . the experimental program consisted of three phases .. panels clamped front and rear, and (3) buckled panels clamped on all four edges . panel flutter was obtained under controlled laboratory conditions and it was found that, at the flow conditions of these tests, increasing tensile forces were effective in eliminating flutter, as were shortening the panels or increasing the bending stiffness . no apparent systematic trends in the flutter modes or frequencies could be observed, and it is significant that the panel flutter sometimes involved higher modes and frequencies . the presence of a pressure differential between the two surfaces of a panel was observed to have a stabilizing effect . initially buckled panels were more susceptible to flutter than panels without buckling . buckled panels with all four edges clamped were much less prone to flutter than buckled panels clamped front and rear .
857|experimental studies of flutter of buckled rectangular panels at mach numbers from 1. 2 to 3. 0 including effects of pressure differential and of panel width-length ratio .|experimental studies of flutter of buckled rectangular panels at mach numbers from 1. 2 to 3. 0 including effects of pressure differential and of panel width-length ratio . experimental panel flutter data have been obtained at mach numbers from 1.2 to 3.0 for buckled rectangular panels and the effect of a pressure differential has been determined . increasing the pressure differential was effective in eliminating flutter on most of the panels tested . the effects of the variables in the panel flutter parameter sure, e is young's modulus, and t and l are the panel thickness and length, respectively) were investigated for buckled panels clamped on the front and rear edges and a critical value of this parameter of 0.44 is indicated at zero pressure differential when the panel width-length ratio is 0.69 . an estimated flutter boundary is presented for buckled panels clamped on four edges, with width-length ratios of 0.21 to 4.0 . this boundary shows that the panel width is more significant than the panel length when the ratio of width to length is less than approximately 0.5 . panels clamped on four edges and buckled in two half waves in the direction of flow were found to be particularly susceptible to flutter . the results of limited tests on panels with applied damping, curvature, and lengthwise stiffeners are also presented and discussed .
858|experimental investigation at mach numbers 3. 0 of the effects of thermal stress and buckling on the flutter of four-bay aluminium alloy panels with length-width ratios of 10 .|experimental investigation at mach numbers 3. 0 of the effects of thermal stress and buckling on the flutter of four-bay aluminium alloy panels with length-width ratios of 10 . skin-stiffener aluminum alloy panels consisting of four bays, each bay having a length-width ratio of 10, were tested at a mach number of 3.0 at dynamic pressures ranging from 1,500 psf to 5,000 psf and at stagnation temperatures from 300 f to 655 f . the panels were restrained by the supporting structure in such a manner that partial thermal expansion of the skins could occur in both the longitudinal and lateral directions . a boundary faired through the experimental flutter points consisted of a flat-panel portion, a buckled-panel portion, and a transition point at the intersection of the two boundaries . in the region where a panel must be flat when flutter occurs, an increase in panel skin temperature (or midplane compressive stress) makes the panel more susceptible to flutter . in the region where a panel must be buckled when flutter occurs, the flutter trend is reversed . this reversal in trend is attributed to the panel postbuckling behavior .
859|flutter of aerodynamically heated aluminium-alloy and stainless steel panels with length-width ratio of 10 at mach 3. 0.|flutter of aerodynamically heated aluminium-alloy and stainless steel panels with length-width ratio of 10 at mach 3. 0. an investigation of the effects of aerodynamic heating on the flutter of multibay external-skin panels has been carried out at a mach number of 3.0 in the langley 9- by 6-foot thermal structures tunnel . both aluminum-alloy and 17-7 ph stainless-steel panels with a length-width ratio of 10 for each bay were tested at dynamic pressures between addition, a few tests were made on the lower vertical stabilizer of the x-15 airplane which has external-skin panels unsupported for a length all panels showed flutter boundaries characterized by an increase in panel thickness required to prevent flutter with increasing thermally induced stress prior to buckling . after buckling the panels showed flutter boundaries characterized by a decrease in thickness required to prevent flutter with further increases in thermal stress . the largest thickness required to prevent flutter in the presence of aerodynamic heating occurred at the transition between the flat-panel boundary and the buckled-panel boundary . this peak value (for aluminum-alloy panel) was as much as 60 percent greater than the extrapolated value for an unheated, unloaded panel . values of the modified-thickness-ratio flutter parameter for the unstressed panels (obtained by extrapolation) were in fair agreement for the aluminum, steel, and x-15 stabilizer panels . peak values at transition, however, showed large differences due to apparently minor changes in panel-support construction and or changes in panel-skin material .
864|status of flutter of flat and curved panels .|status of flutter of flat and curved panels . representative results are presented to show the current status of the panel flutter problem . the discussion includes flat panels with and without midplane stresses, buckled panels, and both unstiffened and stiffened infinitely long circular cylinders .
875|models for aeroelastic investigation .|models for aeroelastic investigation . this addendum provides a short note on two aspects omitted from the original paper, viz. gravitational effects and structural damping . a short list of references to earlier papers dealing with the subject is also added .
876|on flutter testing in high speed wind tunnels .|on flutter testing in high speed wind tunnels . the requirements for simulating in a wind tunnel flutter conditions appropriate to high-speed flight are discussed, and an assessment is made of the desirable features of a wind tunnel suitable for flutter testing at transonic and supersonic speeds . it is concluded that such a tunnel should have either the mach number or the stagnation pressure variable during the tunnel run, and that it is of considerable advantage, and for some purposes essential, for high stagnation pressures to be available . the stagnation pressure required to allow flight conditions to be simulated with a flutter model is considered to range from at least 2 atmospheres for transonic speeds to about 15 atmospheres for m = 4 . no attempt to simulate kinetic heating is envisaged, although its effect on stiffness should be allowed for in the design of the model . to minimise uncertainties due to the variation of the model stiffness with temperature it is desirable that means for controlling the stagnation temperature should be incorporated in the tunnel .
877|the influence of aerodynamic heating on the flexural rigidity of a thin wing .|the influence of aerodynamic heating on the flexural rigidity of a thin wing . this report considers the loss of flexural rigidity of a thin wing due to the presence of middle-surface stresses resulting from aerodynamic heating . the spanwise properties of the wing are assumed constant but the wing section is arbitrary . the loss of flexural rigidity is comparable with the corresponding loss of torsional rigidity .
879|flutter model testing at transonic speeds .|flutter model testing at transonic speeds . flutter research on reflection plane models of straight, swept, and delta wings in a 3 x 4 foot transonic test facility . techniques of model construction and testing developed .
880|the design and testing of supersonic flutter models .|the design and testing of supersonic flutter models . the basic problems of flutter testing in the low supersonic speed range simulate full-scale airplanes when mach number is included as a parameter are reviewed and are compared with those where velocity is scaled when the leading edges become transonic,. these are compared with results given elsewhere and serve as a check on the results of tables i and ii .
948|panel flutter tests on full scale x-15 lower vertical stabilizer at mach number of 3. 0.|panel flutter tests on full scale x-15 lower vertical stabilizer at mach number of 3. 0. panel flutter tests were conducted on two full-scale vertical stabilizers of the x-15 airplane at a mach number of 3.0 in the langley at dynamic pressures from 1,500 psf to 5,000 psf and stagnation temperatures from 300 f to 660 f . flutter boundaries were obtained for four of the five distinct types of panels which make up the vertical sides of the stabilizers . the boundaries consisted of a flat-panel boundary and a thermally buckled-panel boundary . the flat-panel boundaries were characterized by a reduction in dynamic pressure with increasing skin temperature,. whereas, after thermal buckling the trend was reversed . the minimum dynamic pressure for flutter occurred at the intersection of the flat-panel and buckled-panel boundaries and represented a large reduction in the dynamic pressure over the extrapolated, unstressed value . as a result of panel flutter, three of the five distinct types of panels were modified to provide the required flutter margin on the design flight dynamic pressure of the aircraft .
998|equations, tables and charts for compressible flow .|equations, tables and charts for compressible flow . this report, which is a revision and extension of naca tn useful in the analysis of high-speed flow of a compressible fluid . the equations provide relations for continuous one-dimensional flow, normal and oblique shock waves, and prandtl-meyer expansions for both perfect and imperfect gases . the tables present useful dimensionless ratios for continuous one- dimensional flow and for normal shock waves as functions of mach number for air considered as a perfect gas . one series of charts presents the characteristics of the flow of air (considered a perfect gas) for oblique shock waves and for cones in a supersonic air stream . a second series shows the effects of caloric imperfections on continuous one-dimensional flow and on the flow through normal and oblique shock waves .
999|static aerodynamic characteristics of short blunt cones with various nose and base cone angles at mach numbers of 0. 6 to 5. 5 and angles of attack to 180 .|static aerodynamic characteristics of short blunt cones with various nose and base cone angles at mach numbers of 0. 6 to 5. 5 and angles of attack to 180 . wind-tunnel tests have been performed at mach numbers from 0.6 to 5.5 to determine coefficients of normal force, axial force, and pitching moment for short blunt cones, as affected by changes in nose and base cone angles . models with nose half-angles of 10 and 20 were investigated . the 10 nose half-angle models were tested with a flat base and with base cones of 50 and 70 half-angle . the 20 nose half-angle model had a 50 half-angle base cone . reynolds numbers for the test ranged from about maximum diameter . variations in the base cone angle resulted in significant changes in the aerodynamic characteristics, with lesser effects resulting from changes in nose cone angle . in particular, the model with the 50 half-angle conical base had only one trim angle flat base and 70 half-angle conical base had two trim angles (a = 0 and a = 180) . estimated variations of the aerodynamic characteristics with angle of attack by means of a modified newtonian theory were in good agreement with the experimental results . the theory, however, failed to predict the trim point at a = 180 for the flat-based model .
1005|free-flight measurements of the static and dynamic .|free-flight measurements of the static and dynamic . equations based on newtonian impact theory have been derived and a computational procedure developed with the aid of several design-type charts which enable the determination of the aerodynamic forces and moments acting on arbitrary bodies of revolution undergoing either separate or combined angle-of-attack and pitching motions . bodies with axially increasing and decreasing cross-sectional area distributions are considered,. nose shapes may be sharp, blunt, or flat faced . the analysis considers variations in angle of attack from -90 to 90 and allows for both positive and negative pitching rates of arbitrary magnitude . the results are also directly applicable to bodies in either separate or combined sideslip and yawing maneuvers .
1011|free-flight measurements of the static and dynamic .|free-flight measurements of the static and dynamic . charts have been prepared relating the thermodynamic properties of air in chemical equilibrium for temperatures to 15,000 k and for pressures from 10 to 10 atmospheres . also included are charts showing the composition of air, the isentropic exponent, and the speed of sound . these charts are based on thermodynamic data calculated by the national bureau of standards .
1112|unsteady aerodynamic forces on a slender body of revolution in supersonic flow .|unsteady aerodynamic forces on a slender body of revolution in supersonic flow . linearized slender-body theory is applied to the computation of aerodynamic forces on an oscillating, or deforming, body in supersonic flow . the undeformed body is a body of revolution and the deformed body is represented by movement of a line through the centers of the cross sections which are assumed to remain circular . the time dependence is based on sinusoidal motion . for a body of vanishing thickness the slender-body theory yields the apparent mass approximation as it is obtained for incompressible crossflow around a cylinder . both linearized slender-body theory and the apparent mass approximation are used to calculate the pitching-moment coefficients on a rigid slender body with a parabolic arc nose cone, and these coefficients are compared with some experimental results .
1|experimental investigation of the aerodynamics of a wing in a slipstream .|experimental investigation of the aerodynamics of a wing in a slipstream . an experimental study of a wing in a propeller slipstream was made in order to determine the spanwise distribution of the lift increase due to slipstream at different angles of attack of the wing and at different free stream to slipstream velocity ratios . the results were intended in part as an evaluation basis for different theoretical treatments of this problem . the comparative span loading curves, together with supporting evidence, showed that a substantial part of the lift increment produced by the slipstream was due to a /destalling/ or boundary-layer-control effect . the integrated remaining lift increment, after subtracting this destalling lift, was found to agree well with a potential flow theory . an empirical evaluation of the destalling effects was made for the specific configuration of the experiment .
2|simple shear flow past a flat plate in an incompressible fluid of small viscosity .|simple shear flow past a flat plate in an incompressible fluid of small viscosity . in the study of high-speed viscous flow past a two-dimensional body it is usually necessary to consider a curved shock wave emitting from the nose or leading edge of the body . consequently, there exists an inviscid rotational flow region between the shock wave and the boundary layer . such a situation arises, for instance, in the study of the hypersonic viscous flow past a flat plate . the situation is somewhat different from prandtl's classical boundary-layer problem . in prandtl's original problem the inviscid free stream outside the boundary layer is irrotational while in a hypersonic boundary-layer problem the inviscid free stream must be considered as rotational . the possible effects of vorticity have been recently discussed by ferri and libby . in the present paper, the simple shear flow past a flat plate in a fluid of small viscosity is investigated . it can be shown that this problem can again be treated by the boundary-layer approximation, the only novel feature being that the free stream has a constant vorticity . the discussion here is restricted to two-dimensional incompressible steady flow .
3|the boundary layer in simple shear flow past a flat plate .|the boundary layer in simple shear flow past a flat plate . the boundary-layer equations are presented for steady incompressible flow with no pressure gradient .
4|approximate solutions of the incompressible laminar boundary layer equations for a plate in shear flow .|approximate solutions of the incompressible laminar boundary layer equations for a plate in shear flow . the two-dimensional steady boundary-layer problem for a flat plate in a shear flow of incompressible fluid is considered . solutions for the boundary- layer thickness, skin friction, and the velocity distribution in the boundary layer are obtained by the karman-pohlhausen technique . comparison with the boundary layer of a uniform flow has also been made to show the effect of vorticity .
5|one-dimensional transient heat conduction into a double-layer slab subjected to a linear heat input for a small time internal .|one-dimensional transient heat conduction into a double-layer slab subjected to a linear heat input for a small time internal . analytic solutions are presented for the transient heat conduction in composite slabs exposed at one surface to a triangular heat rate . this type of heating rate may occur, for example, during aerodynamic heating .
6|one-dimensional transient heat flow in a multilayer slab .|one-dimensional transient heat flow in a multilayer slab . in a recent contribution to the readers' forum wassermann gave analytic solutions for the temperature in a double layer slab, with a triangular heat rate input at one face, insulated at the other, and with no thermal resistance at the interface . his solutions were for the three particular cases.. i propose here to give the general solution to this problem, to indicate briefly how it is obtained using the method of reference 2, and to point out that the solutions given by wassermann are incomplete for times longer than the duration of the heat input .
7|the effect of controlled three-dimensional roughness on boundary layer transition at supersonic speeds .|the effect of controlled three-dimensional roughness on boundary layer transition at supersonic speeds . experiments were performed in the 12-in. supersonic wind tunnel of the jet propulsion laboratory of the california institute of technology to investigate the effect of three-dimensional roughness elements (spheres) on boundary-layer transition on a tained at local mach numbers of 1.90, 2.71, and 3.67 by varying trip size, position, spacing, and reynolds number per inch . the results indicate that (1) transition from laminar to turbulent flow induced by three-dimensional roughness elements begins when the double row of spiral vortices trailing each element contaminates and breaks down the surrounding field of vorticity, (2) transition appears rather suddenly, becoming more violent with increasing roughness height relative to the boundary-layer thickness, (3) after the breakdown of the vorticity field, the strength of the spiral vortices may still persist in the sublayer of the ensuing turbulent flow, (4) lateral spacing of roughness elements has little effect upon the initial breakdown (contamination) of the laminar flow, and (5) the trip reynolds number where u and v are the velocity and kinematic viscosity at the outer edge of the boundary layer and k is roughness height, such that transition occurs at the roughness position, varies as the position reynolds number to the one-fourth power, viz., where x is trip position .
8|measurements of the effect of two-dimensional and three-dimensional roughness elements on boundary layer transition .|measurements of the effect of two-dimensional and three-dimensional roughness elements on boundary layer transition . in his study of the effect of roughness on transition, h. l. dryden found, on the basis of available data, that the effect of a two-dimensional roughness element such as a /trip wire/ could be represented reasonably well in terms of a functional relation between and, where is the reynolds number of transition based on distance from the leading edge, is the height of the roughness element, and is the boundary-layer displacement thickness at the position of the element . at his suggestion some additional data were obtained, primarily to extend the range to higher values of, during the course of an investigation of transition on a flat plate conducted at the national bureau of standards . after the results on the two- dimensional roughness elements were obtained, it appeared to be desirable to see whether a row of three-dimensional roughness elements would behave in the same way .
9|transition studies and skin friction measurements on an insulated flat plate at a mach number of 5.8 .|transition studies and skin friction measurements on an insulated flat plate at a mach number of 5.8 . an investigation of transition and skin friction on an insulated flat plate, 5 by 26 in., was made in the galcit 5 by 5 in. hypersonic wind tunnel at a nominal mach number of 5.8 . the phosphorescent lacquer technique was used for transition detection and was found to be in good agreement with total-head rake measurements along the plate surface and pitot boundary- layer surveys . it was found that the boundary layer was laminar at reynolds numbers of at least 5 x 10 . transverse contamination caused by the turbulent boundary layer on the tunnel sidewall originated far downstream of the flat plate leading edge at reynolds numbers of 1.5 to 2 x 10, and spread at a uniform angle of 5 compared to 9 degree in low-speed flow . the effect of two-dimensional and local disturbances was investigated . the technique of air injection into the boundary layer as a means of hastening transition was extensively used . although the onset of transition occurred at reynolds numbers as low as 10, a fully developed turbulent boundary layer was not obtained at reynolds numbers much below 2 x 10 regardless of the amount of air injected . a qualitative discussion of these results is given with emphasis on the possibility of a greater stability of the laminar boundary layer in hypersonic flow than at lower speeds . direct skin-friction measurements were made by means of the floating element technique, over a range of reynolds numbers verified as being laminar over the complete range . with air injection, turbulent shear was obtained only for reynolds numbers greater than 2 x 10, this value being in good agreement with earlier results of this investigation . the turbulent skin-friction coefficient was found to be approximately 0.40 of that for incompressible flow for a constant value of r, and 0.46 for an effective reynolds number between 5 and 6 x 10 .
10|the theory of the impact tube at low pressure .|the theory of the impact tube at low pressure . a theoretical analysis has been made for an impact tube of the relation between free-stream mach number and the impact and free-stream pressures and densities for extremely low pressures . it is shown that the results differ appreciably from the corresponding continuum relations .
11|similar solutions in compressible laminar free mixing problems .|similar solutions in compressible laminar free mixing problems . there are in supersonic aerodynamics many situations of practical interest wherein streams of different velocities and, in general, different stagnation pressures mix with one another . in the majority of these problems the interaction between the two streams takes place in the presence of an axial pressure gradient . its effect on the characteristics of the mixing may influence significantly the performances of the devices wherein the phenomena cited above occur . a theoretical and experimental program of research to study mixing in the presence of axial pressure gradients is being carried on at the polytechnic institute of brooklyn .
16|transformation of the compressible turbulent boundary layer .|transformation of the compressible turbulent boundary layer . the transformation of the compressible turbulent boundary- layer equations to their incompressible equivalent is demonstrated analytically . the transformation is essentially the same as that for the laminar layer, first given by stewartson, except that the explicit relation between the viscosity and temperature is not required . a key point in the analysis is the modification of the stream function to include a mean of the fluctuating components and the postulate that the apparent turbulent shear, associated with an elemental mass, remains invariant in the transformation . the values of the incompressible friction coefficients and of pressure rise causing separation thus transformed show good agreement with the experimentally measured and independently reported results . an application of the transformation to the self-preserving boundary layers and to the computations of general boundary-layer flow is shown .
17|remarks on the eddy viscosity in compressible mixing flows .|remarks on the eddy viscosity in compressible mixing flows . in connection with a study of the wakes behind bodies in hypersonic flow carried out for the missile and space vehicle division of the general electric company, it was desired to estimate the eddy viscosity in axisymmetric, compressible wakes . because of the lack of applicable experimental data, it was found necessary to make such an estimate by rationally extending the few available data for incompressible flows to the compressible case . this suggested the application and extension of the transformations applied to turbulent boundary layers in reference infinitesimal mass are invariant with transformation, mager showed that the partial differential equations for the compressible turbulent boundary layer can be transformed to incompressible form . the validity of this assumption and of the transformations was established for several boundary-layer flows by comparison with experiment .
18|the flow field in the diffuser of a radial compressor .|the flow field in the diffuser of a radial compressor . this note discusses the two-dimensional diffuser flow field in a radial compressor outside the impeller wheel . it is assumed that the diffuser has guide vanes arranged in a circular row at a radius . the impeller wheel has the radius (see fig. 1) . the flow in the diffuser starts at the circle with the radius . the velocity components, and in the r and directions of the velocity vector on this circle are prescribed together with the thermal state of the gas . the flow so prescribed on the radius will, if no disturbances are present (i.e., no boundary conditions in the flow other than zero velocity at infinity are to be fulfilled), develop in a spiral flow .
19|an investigation of the pressure distribution on conical bodies in hypersonic flows .|an investigation of the pressure distribution on conical bodies in hypersonic flows . a large amount of work on conical flow fields without axial symmetry at supersonic speed is presently available . however, no apparent hypersonic approximation has yet been derived . in this note, experimental data on two elliptical cones at m = 6 are presented and a hypersonic approach obtained from physical considerations is suggested .
23|skin-friction and heat transfer characteristics of a laminar boundary layer on a cylinder in axial incompressible flow .|skin-friction and heat transfer characteristics of a laminar boundary layer on a cylinder in axial incompressible flow . a solution is given for the case of the laminar boundary layer of an incompressible fluid of constant properties on the exterior of a cylinder with flow parallel to the cylinder axis . this case differs from the blasius solution for flow along a flat plate by considering the effect of the curvature in a plane transverse to the flow direction . the local skin-friction and heat-transfer coefficients for a prandtl number of 0.715 are evaluated and compared to the similar magnitudes for flat plate flow, and the effect of the curvature is shown to be significant in some practical cases . recovery factors are evaluated, and this quantity is found to be insensitive to the effect of curvature of the boundary .
24|theory of stagnation point heat transfer in dissociated air .|theory of stagnation point heat transfer in dissociated air . the boundary-layer equations are developed in general for the case of very high speed flight where the external flow is in a dissociated state . in particular the effects of diffusion and of atom recombination in the boundary layer are included . it is shown that at the stagnation point the equations can be reduced exactly to a set of nonlinear ordinary differential equations even when the chemical reactions proceed so slowly that the boundary layer is not in thermochemical equilibrium . two methods of numerical solution of these stagnation point equations are presented, one for the equilibrium case and the other for the nonequilibrium case . numerical results are correlated in terms of the parameters entering the numerical formulation so as not to depend critically on the physical assumptions made . for the nonequilibrium boundary layer, both catalytic (to atom recombination) and noncatalytic wall surfaces are considered . a solution is represented which shows the transition from the /frozen/ boundary layer (very slow recombination rates) to the equilibrium boundary layer (fast recombination rates) . a recombination rate parameter is introduced to interpret the nonequilibrium results, and it is shown that a scale factor is involved in relating the equilibrium state of a boundary layer on bodies of different sizes . it is concluded that the heat transfer through the equilibrium stagnation point boundary layer can be computed accurately by a simple correlation formula and that the heat transfer is almost unaffected by a nonequilibrium state of the boundary layer provided the wall is catalytic and the lewis number near unity .
25|inviscid hypersonic flow over blunt-nosed slender bodies .|inviscid hypersonic flow over blunt-nosed slender bodies . at hypersonic speeds the drag area of a blunt nose is much larger than the drag area of a slender afterbody, and the energy contained in the flow field in a plane at right angles to the flight direction is nearly constant over a downstream distance many times greater than the characteristic nose dimension . the transverse flow field exhibits certain similarity properties directly analogous to the flow similarity behind an intense blast wave found by g. i. taylor, s. c. lin, and a. sakurai . a comparison with the experiments of hammitt, vas, and bogdonoff on a flat plate with a blunt leading edge at in helium shows that the shock-wave shape is predicted very accurately by this similarity analysis . the predicted surface pressure distribution is somewhat less satisfactory . experimental results on a hemisphere-cylinder obtained at in the galcit air tunnel indicate that not only the shock-wave shape but also the surface pressures for this body are given very closely by the similarity theory, except near the hemisphere-cylinder junction . energy considerations combined with a detailed study of the equations of motion show that flow similarity is also possible for a class of bodies of the form, provided that, where for a two-dimensional body and for a body of revolution . when the shock shape is not similar to the body shape, and the entire flow field some distance from the nose must depend to some extent on the details of the nose geometry . by again utilizing energy and drag considerations one finds that at hypersonic speeds the inviscid surface pressures generated by a blunt leading edge are larger than the pressures induced by boundary-layer growth on an insulated flat surface for an insulated blunt-nosed slender body of revolution the corresponding distance is given by . (here is free-stream reynolds number based on leading-edge thickness, or nose diameter .) in free flight these constants are replaced by 1,700 and 20, respectively, so that viscous interaction effects are important over the forward portion of a blunt- nosed slender body only for relatively low values of . however, /far downstream/ of the nose the inviscid over-pressure is small and viscous interaction phenomena will have to be taken into account .
26|inviscid leading-edge effect in hypersonic flow .|inviscid leading-edge effect in hypersonic flow . current interest in the problem of inviscid-viscous interaction has led to the realization of the significant effect of the leading-edge thickness in hypersonic flow . the purpose of this note is to give an account of the downstream influence of the blunt leading edge on the basis of the hypersonic small perturbation theory .
27|newtonian flow theory for slender bodies .|newtonian flow theory for slender bodies . as an aid to the aerodynamieist in the design of air frames for hypersonic speeds (speeds faster than about mach 5), newtonian flow theory is examined from the point of view of gas dynamics and hypersonic small-disturbance theory . the usual theory is shown to result as the first approximation of an expansion valid for small . a basic similarity parameter is introduced . a general solution of the first approximation for the flow past slender bodies (bodies which cause only a small disturbance to the stream) at zero angle of attack is given . an important condition which limits the application of the theory is noted-namely, that the pressure coefficient on the surface not fall to zero . the theory is then applied to cones and to bodies whose shape is .
28|a note on the explosion solution of sedov with application to the newtonian theory of unsteady hypersonic flow .|a note on the explosion solution of sedov with application to the newtonian theory of unsteady hypersonic flow . an exact analytical solution of the equations of inviscid compressible unsteady flow has been given by sedov (reference to the solution may be made through hayes and probstein) . this solution is the similarity solution for a constant-energy point explosion . in view of the recent work on problems of hypersonic flow in the limiting form of the ratio of specific heats near 1 solution in this limit and inquire what form such a solution would take . einbinder, in a recent note, has examined the solution for various but does not mention the interesting case of . it may be shown that the convergence to the limit is nonuniform over the flow field . it is also not difficult to show that the non- uniform behavior exhibited here is that which one would expect from the newtonian formulation as derived in reference 3 .
32|the dynamic motion of a missile descending through the atmosphere .|the dynamic motion of a missile descending through the atmosphere . a method is presented for computing rapidly, yet accurately, the dynamic motion of a ballistic-type missile descending through the atmosphere . the equations of motion are separated into a set of /static/ trajectory equations (zero angle of attack) and a set of /rotational/ equations describing the oscillatory motion of the missile about its center of gravity . a transformation allows the rotational equations to be written in a manner analogous to the equation for an undamped oscillating spring mass system with the mass equal to unity and a time variable spring constant . for given initial conditions this equation can be solved to obtain the envelope of maximum angle of attack . an additional transformation allows the calculation of the complete oscillatory motion at any time during the trajectory as a function of the maximum angle of attack at that time . this solution shows that the maximum angle of attack of a missile descending through the atmosphere at relatively constant speed is reduced even when the aerodynamic damping is neglected .
33|the prospects for magneto-aerodynamics .|the prospects for magneto-aerodynamics . the equations describing the flow of an electrically conducting fluid in the presence of electric and magnetic fields are written down with the aid of certain simplifications appropriate to aeronautical applications . in order to estimate the probable significance of magneto-aerodynamic effects, some data on conductivity of pure and /seeded/ air are first examined . dimensionless quantities representing the ratios of forces and of currents are then formed and their values studied for conditions of flight in the atmosphere . some examples of magneto-hydrodynamic and magneto- gasdynamic effects in simple flows are given . these include two cases of poiscuille flow of conducting liquids with applied magnetic fields and the case of quasi-one-dimensional gas flow with applied electrical and magnetic fields . in the last case, attractive possibilities are found for controlled acceleration or deceleration of gas at subsonic and supersonic speeds, even in constant-area channels . the behavior of the flow is characteristically different in different regimes of mach number and flow speed relative to certain /significant speeds/ that are dependent on the ratio of electrical to magnetic field strengths . these are studied, and a chart is constructed to relate the length to the speed ratio of a maximum-acceleration constant-area channel . it is concluded that the advantages that may accrue from magneto-aerodynamic methods are sufficiently attractive to justify the considerable research and engineering development that will be required . among the unsolved engineering problems are the reduction of surface resistance of electrodes in contact with a conducting gas, development of techniques for seeding, and provision of the required magnetic fields in flight .
34|constant-temperature magneto-gasdynamic channel flow .|constant-temperature magneto-gasdynamic channel flow . in the course of investigating boundary-layer flow in continuous plasma accelerators with crossed electric and magnetic fields, it was found advantageous to have at hand simple closed-form solutions for the magneto-gasdynamic flow in the duct which could serve as free-stream conditions for the boundary layers . nontrivial solutions of this sort are not available at present, and in fact, as in the work of resler and sears, the variation of conditions along the flow axis must be obtained through numerical integration . consequently, some simple solutions of magneto-gasdynamic channel flow were sought, possessing sufficient algebraic simplicity to serve as free-stream boundary conditions for analytic investigations of the boundary layer in a physically reasonable accelerator . in particular, since the cooling of the accelerator tube is likely to be an important physical problem because of the high gas temperatures required to provide sufficient gaseous conductivity, channel flow with constant temperature appears interesting . some simple algebraic solutions for the case of a constant temperature plasma are developed in the following paragraphs .
35|stagnation point of a blunt body in hypersonic flow .|stagnation point of a blunt body in hypersonic flow . the purpose of this paper is to present a method of calculation devised to yield all the important information on the symmetric inviscid hypersonic flow in the stagnation point region of a blunt body . the problem is the same as that considered by hayes who used a slightly different approach . it is demonstrated that hayes' results are valid in the stagnation point region and can hence be considered a basis for constructing less restricted solutions . equations are presented giving velocity, pressure, detachment distance, and vorticity . the values of shock detachment distance and body pressure coefficient are compared with experimental data for spheres . the pressure comparison shows that the results of hayes and the theory presented herein represent a better approximation than the newtonian impact theory for hypersonic mach numbers . in conclusion, the possibility of refinements to this analysis is discussed .
36|supersonic flow around blunt bodies .|supersonic flow around blunt bodies . the newtonian theory of impact has been shown to be useful for pressure calculations on the forward facing part of bodies moving at high speed . it is now a familiar practice to use this information to calculate nonviscous velocities at the wall and then to estimate rates of heat transfer . this procedure is perhaps open to question,. heat-transfer rates depend on velocity gradients which are not given by the newtonian analysis . nor can one obtain information on boundary-layer stability or all the body stability derivatives . it seems, therefore, inevitable that, as design proceeds with these hypersonic missiles, there will be a greater need for more accurate aerodynamic theories either to predict what will happen in unfamiliar flight conditions or to effect an extrapolation from a known test result to the design condition .
38|on the prediction of mixed subsonic/supersonic pressure distributions .|on the prediction of mixed subsonic/supersonic pressure distributions . high-speed wind-tunnel results are analyzed to derive a semiempirical scheme for the prediction of transonic pressure distributions . the supersonic and subsonic parts of the flow are treated separately, and then linked by an empirical shock pressure rise relation . the significance of the empirical results is considered in relation to the physical mechanism of transonic flows . it is also shown that theoretical solutions can be improved by introducing the empirical shock relation .
39|on the flow of a sonic stream past an airfoil surface .|on the flow of a sonic stream past an airfoil surface . this study of the flow about an airfoil in a near-sonic stream indicates the important factors determining the pressure distribution on the airfoil . analysis of the mach wave pattern suggests that the supersonic domain of the flow can be derived from two simple-wave flows, one arising from the mach waves reflected at the sonic line and the other from the changes in airfoil surface slope . the compressive effect of the reflected mach waves is determined quantitatively as a function of airfoil leading-edge geometry from an analysis of measured pressure distributions for uncambered airfoils,. and it is shown how this can be superimposed on the wave system from the curved surface to give an equivalent simple-wave flow over the airfoil . an application of this scheme to the calculation of the pressure distribution over an airfoil in a sonic stream gives results in good agreement with experiment .
40|experiments on boundary layer transition at supersonic speeds .|experiments on boundary layer transition at supersonic speeds . tests were conducted in the 12-in. continuous supersonic wind tunnel of the jet propulsion laboratory, california institute of technology, to determine the effects of surface cooling on boundary-layer transition at supersonic speeds . the effects of cooling were investigated at test section mach numbers of 1.97, smooth cone in the presence of three levels of supply-stream turbulence (0.4, 2, and 9 per cent) and several single-element roughnesses at fixed axial location . transition data were obtained optically by means of a magnified-schlieren system . the results, for the range of mach number investigated, indicate that (1) transition on a smooth cone can definitely be delayed by surface cooling, (2) transition promoted by either supply-stream turbulence or surface roughness can also be delayed by surface cooling depending upon degree of turbulence or relative roughness respectively, and (3) the adverse effects of increased turbulence and roughness decrease with increasing mach number .
41|on transition experiments at moderate supersonic speeds .|on transition experiments at moderate supersonic speeds . studies of transition over a flat plate at mach number 1.76 were carried out using a hot-wire anemometer as one of the principal tools . the nature and measurements of free-stream disturbances at supersonic speeds are analyzed . the experimental results are interpreted in the light of present overall information on transition at supersonic speeds and conclusions as to further fruitful experiments are drawn .
42|the gyroscopic effect of a rigid rotating propeller on engine and wing vibration modes .|the gyroscopic effect of a rigid rotating propeller on engine and wing vibration modes . in many wing vibration analyses it is found necessary to take into account the effect of flexibly mounted engines . hence, it is reasonable to ask what vibratory gyroscopic effect this flexibility may give rise to when propellers are whirling . an engine mount may be thought of as a horizontal beam cantilevered from the wing, having both horizontal and vertical flexibility . if this beam were infinitely rigid horizontally, then, when it vibrated, the gyroscopic moments induced in the propeller due to the resultant pitching motion of its axis would not produce propeller axis yaw . however, engine-mount lateral stiffness tical stiffness, so that gyroscopic effects will play a role as the propeller axis undergoes pitching vibrations at the tip of the cantilever engine mount . the purpose of this paper is to investigate this role under the assumption that the propeller itself is a rigid disc . the paper is divided into four parts . part (1) deals briefly with classical gyroscope theory . part (2) presents engine vibration mode studies-experimental photographic techniques on a model gyroscope mounted at the ends of two different cantilever beams . part (3) presents the theory of the coupled motion of an elastic wing upon which a gyroscope is mounted to simulate an engine-propeller system on an airplane . part (4) consists of an example of the theory of part (3), in which, by taking what are thought to be reasonable parameters, results are obtained showing how the whirling of a rigid propeller may materially affect wing normal mode shapes and frequencies .
43|the relation between wall temperature and the effect of roughness on boundary layer transition .|the relation between wall temperature and the effect of roughness on boundary layer transition . the experimentally demonstrated rise and subsequent fall of transition reynolds number with decreasing wall- to-ambient temperature ratio has been the subject of two recent notes . in both cases it was argued that the increased effectiveness of roughness due to wall cooling was not sufficient to explain the transition-reversal phenomenon on nominally smooth bodies . in one case, the criterion for transition reversal was taken to be and in the other values of as low as eter is a reynolds number formed from velocity and kinematic viscosity based on calculated conditions at the height of roughness element k in the undisturbed, laminar boundary layer at the station of roughness location . the present note is submitted to show that another method for evaluating the effect of roughness on transition leads to an opposite conclusion .
44|tip-bluntness effects on cone pressures at m=6.85 .|tip-bluntness effects on cone pressures at m=6.85 . there is, at present, considerable interest in the characteristies of blunted bodies from both an aerodynamic and a heat-transfer standpoint . the use of blunt shapes is contemplated to reduce the heat-transfer problem at body noses, but there are also applications for blunt noses which occur from mainly aerodynamic considerations . an actual reduction in drag may be the beneficial result of blunting the nose of a cone or a similar slender shape under certain conditions . although the sphere has received considerable treatment, the nose shapes are not necessarily tangent spheres . in the case, let us say, of a total head tube situated in the nose of a given body, the blunting may be quite flat, and nose sections blunter than spherical shape may conceivably be desirable, in some cases, from the heat- transfer standpoint . the purpose of the present investigation is to examine the aerodynamic effect of a simple type of nose blunting on a basic body . the incompressible flow of an electrically conducting fluid past a porous plate y = 0 with constant suction velocity in the presence of a transverse uniform strength has recently been investigated by gupta . in this note, the problem is generalized to take into account the effect of free convection, when a body force g per unit mass is acting in the negative x-direction parallel to the wall . the fluid is assumed to be semi- incompressible as usual . in addition to the obvious practical significance, this problem is also interesting in the sense that it provides another exact solution of the magnetohydrodynamic equations, since the only electromagnetic assumptions involved are constant properties and freedom from excessive charges .
45|an investigation of separated flows, part ii: flow in the cavity and heat transfer .|an investigation of separated flows, part ii: flow in the cavity and heat transfer . the first portion of this paper describes studies of the internal structure of the separated flow in a notch at a free-stream mach number of 3 . observations include.. flow visualization, spark- schlieren pictures of the fluctuations of the free shear layer, and studies of the diffusion of heat from sources placed in the separated region . the second part describes measurements of local heat transfer to the wall . the external mach number, the length-to-depth ratio of the cavity, the ratio of the oncoming boundary layer thickness to the notch depth (in the turbulent flow region), the thermal to-momentum thickness ratio of the boundary layer and, finally, the geometry of the internal boundary of the separated region are varied as systematically as possible . on the basis of these observations, a simple model of the flow in and the heat transfer across the separated region is formulated .
46|some comments on the inversion of certain large matrices .|some comments on the inversion of certain large matrices . the subject of matric structural analysis has been treated in two recently published papers in the journal . the authors of these papers have made a number of statements about the inversion of certain large matrices . it is the purpose of this note to bring to the attention of the reader certain facts that shed new light on this important problem . it is shown here that the situation is not as hopeless as the above- mentioned authors intimate .
47|analysis of low-aspect-ratio aircraft structures .|analysis of low-aspect-ratio aircraft structures . two methods are presented for the analysis of complex low- aspect-ratio aircraft structures . both methods provide for arbitrary external loading, are general with respect to the orientation of structural members, and permit arbitrary boundary conditions . for purposes of analysis a structure is idealized as a network of flexural members with interconnected torsion boxes . in the first method, sets of linear equations are obtained by expressing boundary conditions, member deflection equations, equilibrium requirements, and slope-compatibility relationships in terms of deflections and internal forces . the solution for deflections and internal forces is then formed as the product of an inverse structural matrix and a column matrix of load functions . in the second method, the conditions at a given boundary are assembled as a column matrix and are transferred in a step by-step fashion over the entire structure to an opposite boundary . the transfer is accomplished by successive multiplications of square matrices composed independently for the different transfer ranges . the final operation is the inversion of a relatively small matrix and provides the solution for the unknown boundary conditions . comparisons of theoretical results with experimental data and electric-analog solutions are favorable .
49|temperature and velocity profiles in the compressible laminar boundary layer with arbitrary distribution of surface temperature .|temperature and velocity profiles in the compressible laminar boundary layer with arbitrary distribution of surface temperature . an analysis is presented which enables the temperature profiles, veiocity profiles, heat transfer, and skin friction to be calculated for laminar flow over a two-dimensional or axially symmetric surface without pressure gradient but with an arbitrary analytic distribution of surface temperature . the general theory is applicable to a gas of any prandtl number, although the numerical results given herein have been computed for air . the predictions of the theory for the special case of constant surface temperature are compared with the calculations of crocco . on the basis of this comparison, it is inferred that the present theory enables heat-transfer and skin-friction calculations accurate to within about 5 per cent to be made for flight conditions up to mach numbers near 5 and to within about 1 or 2 per cent for supersonic wind-tunnel conditions up to considerably higher mach numbers . a particular effort has been made to present the results, which are simple considering their generality, in a form that can be used readily in practical applications . from the mathematical point of view, the theory is applicable to an arbitrary analytic distribution of surface temperature, but in any given practical case it is necessary that the surface-temperature distribution be approximated by a polynomial . the only unknowns in the final equations developed are the coefficients of this polynomial, so that the work involved in applying the theory in any given case depends entirely on the work involved in approximating a given surface- temperature distribution by a polynomial . an example is worked out in detail which illustrates some of the principal effects of variable surface temperature . it is shown that both positively infinite and negatively infinite heat-transfer coefficients can occur . the anomaly of infinite and negative heat-transfer coefficients is discussed and attributed to the customary definition of the heat-transfer coefficient, which is shown to be fundamentally inappropriate for flows with variable surface temperature . in the particular example considered, a conventional method for calculating the net heat transferred yields completely incorrect results . a brief qualitative discussion of the possible effects of the heat transfer on flow separation is given . in order to facilitate the use of the results, all of the principal equations developed are collected and summarized in the section entitled /practical use of results ./
50|investigation of laminar boundary layer in compressible fluids using the crocco method .|investigation of laminar boundary layer in compressible fluids using the crocco method . in the present investigation of the flow of air in a thin laminar boundary layer on a flat plate, the crocco method has been used to solve the simultaneous differential equations of momentum and energy involved in such flow . the crocco method was used because it gave accurate results for arbitrary prandtl number near unity . the prandtl number was taken at 0.75, the specific heat was held constant, and the sutherland law of viscosity-temperature variation was assumed to represent the viscosity data starting with an initial ambient temperature of -67.6 f . the main results presented here are the skin-friction and heat-transfer coefficients as functions of reynolds number, mach number, and wall-to-free-stream temperature ratio . variations of shear, velocity, temperature, and mach number across the boundary layer are included . the crocco method is discussed in detail .
53|transition reynolds numbers of separated flows at supersonic speeds .|transition reynolds numbers of separated flows at supersonic speeds . experimental research has been conducted on the effects of wall cooling, mach number, and unit reynolds number on the transition reynolds number of cylindrical separated boundary layers on an ogive-cylinder model . results were obtained from pressure and temperature measurements and shadowgraph observations . the maximum scope of measurements encompassed mach numbers between 2.06 and 4.24, reynolds numbers (based on length of separation) between 60,000 and 400,000, and ratios of wall temperature to adiabatic wall temperature between 0.35 and 1.0 . within the range of the present tests, the transition reynolds number was observed to decrease with increasing wall cooling, increase with increasing mach number, and increase with increasing unit reynolds number . the wall-cooling effect was found to be four times as great when the attached boundary layer upstream of separation was cooled in conjunction with cooling of the separated boundary layer as when only the separated boundary layer was cooled . wall cooling of both the attached and separated flow regions also caused, in some cases, reattachment in the otherwise separated region . cavity resonance present in the separated region for some model configurations was accompanied by a large decrease in transition reynolds number at the lower test mach numbers .
54|method for calculation of compressible laminar boundary layer characteristics in axial pressure gradient with zero heat transfer .|method for calculation of compressible laminar boundary layer characteristics in axial pressure gradient with zero heat transfer . the karman-pohlhausen method is extended primarily to sixth-degree velocity profiles for determining the characteristics of the compressible laminar boundary layer over an adiabatic wall in the presence of an axial pressure gradient . it is assumed that the prandtl number is unity and that the coefficient of viscosity varies linearly with the temperature . a general approximate solution which permits a rapid determination of the boundary-layer characteristics for any given free-stream mach number and given velocity distribution at the outer edge of the boundary layer is obtained . numerical examples indicate that this solution will in practice lead to results of satisfactory accuracy, including the critical reynolds number for stability . for the special purpose of calculating the location of the separation point in an adverse pressure gradient, a short and simple method, based on the use of a seventh-degree velocity profile, is derived . the numerical example given here indicates that this method should in practice lead to sufficiently accurate results . for the special case of flow near a forward stagnation point it is shown that the karman-pohlhausen method with the usual fourth-degree profiles leads to results of adequate accuracy, even for the critical reynolds number .
55|separation, stability and other properties of compressible laminar boundary layer with pressure gradient and heat transfer .|separation, stability and other properties of compressible laminar boundary layer with pressure gradient and heat transfer . a theoretical study is made of the effect of pressure gradient, wall temperature, and mach number on laminar boundary-layer characteristics and, in particular, on the skin-friction and heat-transfer coefficients, on the separation point in an adverse pressure gradient, on the wall temperature required for complete stabilization of the laminar boundary layer, and on the minimum critical reynolds number for laminar stability . the prandtl number is assumed to be unity and the coefficient of viscosity is assumed to be proportional to the temperature, with a factor arising from the sutherland relation . a simple and accurate method of locating the separation point in a compressible flow with heat transfer is developed . numerical examples to illustrate the results in detail are given throughout .
59|tables of exact laminar-boundary layer solutions when the wall is porous and fluid properties are variable .|tables of exact laminar-boundary layer solutions when the wall is porous and fluid properties are variable . the three partial differential equations of the laminar boundary layer for two-dimensional steady-state compressible flow have been transformed into two ordinary differential equations by the method of pohlhausen, falkner, and skan . the ordinary equations include parameters for expressing the simultaneous effects of pressure gradient in the main-stream flow through a porous wall and property changes in the fluid due to large temperature differences between the wall and the free stream . a total of 58 cases have been solved numerically by the method of picard . the euler number (nondimensional pressure-gradient parameter) ranges in value from 1 (stagnation-point value) to the negative values found at the laminar separation points . three rates of flow through the porous wall were considered (including the impermeable case where the flow rate is 0) . five temperature ratios (stream temperature divided by wall temperature) were used .. the uncooled and unheated case (temperature ratio of 1), two cooled cases (temperature ratios of ture ratios of and ) . velocity, weight-flow, and temperature distributions are tabulated as are the dimensionless stream function of falkner and skan and its derivatives and the dimensionless temperature function of pohlhausen and its derivatives . for each case, displacement, momentum, and convection thicknesses, as well as nusselt number and coefficient of friction at the wall, were computed .
60|estimation forces and moments due to rolling for several slender tail configurations at supersonic speeds .|estimation forces and moments due to rolling for several slender tail configurations at supersonic speeds . the velocity potentials, span loadings, and corresponding force and moment derivatives have been theoretically evaluated for a number of slender-tail arrangements performing a steady rolling motion at supersonic speeds . the method of analysis is based upon an application of conformal-transformation techniques . the utilization of these techniques allows the simple determination of the complex potentials for various types of two-dimensional boundary-value problems . in addition, two simple and often-used approximations to the rolling derivatives have been compared with the corresponding exact values determined by the method presented in this report . in order to show the importance of wing-tail interference, the effect of the flow field behind a rolling wing on the tail characteristics has been illustrated for a simple wing-tail arrangement .
61|on flow of electrically conducting fluids over a flat plate in the presence of a transverse magnetic field .|on flow of electrically conducting fluids over a flat plate in the presence of a transverse magnetic field . the use of a magnetic field to control the motion of electrically conducting fluids is studied . the boundary-layer solutions are found for flow over a flat plate when the magnetic field is fixed relative to the plate or to the fluid . the equations are integrated numerically for the effect of the transverse magnetic field on the velocity and temperature profiles, and hence, the skin friction and rate of heat transfer . it is concluded that the skin friction and the heat-transfer rate are reduced when the transverse magnetic field is fixed relative to the plate and increased when fixed relative to the fluid . the total drag is increased in all the cases studied .
62|similar solutions for the compressible laminar boundary layer with heat transfer and pressure gradient .|similar solutions for the compressible laminar boundary layer with heat transfer and pressure gradient . stewartson's transformation is applied to the laminar compressible boundary-layer equations and the requirement of similarity is introduced, resulting in a set of ordinary nonlinear differential equations previously quoted by stewartson, but unsolved . the requirements of the system are .. prandtl number of 1.0, linear viscosity-temperature relation across the boundary layer, an isothermal surface, and the particular distributions of free-stream velocity consistent with similar solutions . this system admits axial pressure gradients of arbitrary magnitude, heat flux normal to the surface, and arbitrary mach numbers . the system of differential equations is transformed to an integral system, with the velocity ratio as the independent variable . for this system, solutions are found for pressure gradients varying from that causing separation to the infinitely favorable gradient and for wall temperatures from absolute zero to twice the free-stream stagnation temperature . some solutions for separated flows are also presented . for favorable pressure gradients, the solutions are unique . for adverse pressure gradients, where the solutions are not unique, two solutions of the infinite family of possible solutions are identified as essentially viscid at the outer edge of the boundary layer and the remainder essentially inviscid . for the case of favorable pressure gradients with heated walls, the velocity within a portion of the boundary layer is shown to exceed the local external velocity . the variation of a reynolds analogy parameter, which indicates the ratio of skin friction to heat transfer, is from zero to 7.4 for a surface of temperature twice the free-stream stagnation temperature, and from zero to 2.8 for a surface held at absolute zero where the value 2 applies to a flat plate .
63|hypersonic viscous flow over slender cones .|hypersonic viscous flow over slender cones . viscous self-induced pressures on 3 -semivertex-angle cones were measured over the range 3.7 free-stream mach number 5.8 and 0.5 viscous-interaction parameter 2.3 . the data were found to be in good agreement with results obtained by talbot on 5 cones in the range rameter 3.5 . all these data were correlated reasonably well by the viscous-interaction parameter, which is defined as where and are the mach number and reynolds number based on ideal taylor-maccoll flow conditions and c is the chapman-rubesin factor . a new method for calculating self-induced pressures is presented which takes into account the interaction between boundary-layer growth and the inviscid-flow field at the outer edge of the boundary layer . pressures calculated by this method were only 10 to 20 percent higher than the measured values .
67|dynamic stability of vehicles traversing ascending or descending paths through the atmosphere .|dynamic stability of vehicles traversing ascending or descending paths through the atmosphere . an analysis is given of the oscillatory motions of vehicles which traverse ascending and descending paths through the atmosphere at high speed . the specific case of a skip path is examined in detail, and this leads to a form of solution for the oscillatory motion which should recur over any trajectory . the distinguishing feature of this form is the appearance of the bessel rather than the trigonometric function as the characteristic mode of oscillation .
68|some aspects of air-helium simulation and hypersonic approximations .|some aspects of air-helium simulation and hypersonic approximations . some illustrations of the differences that may be expected between results obtained in hypersonic wind tunnels that employ air and results obtained in those that employ helium as the test medium (imperfect-gas effects are not considered) are compiled and presented herein . simple expressions are presented that demonstrate the possibility of simulating air results in helium tests and of transforming helium data to equivalent air data . nonviscous and viscous simulations are considered . in most cases, the methods and the general forms of the expressions for simulation that are derived are applicable to any two ideal gases having different ratios of specific heats .
69|predicted shock envelopes about two types of vehicles at large angles of attack .|predicted shock envelopes about two types of vehicles at large angles of attack . methods based on oblique- and normal-shock relationships and the continuity of mass flow through suitably chosen volume elements between the shock and body were developed to predict shock envelopes about two types of vehicles being considered for atmosphere entry . one type is a high-drag capsule shape . the other type is essentially a slender triangular wing capable of providing high lift or high drag, depending on the angle of attack . predicted and measured shock envelopes were compared for a mach number range of 3 to 15 for vehicles at high angles of attack,. good agreement was found . most of the available experimental data were in a speed and temperature range in which no important real-gas effects occurred .
70|a study of flow changes associated with airfoil section drag rise at supercritical speeds .|a study of flow changes associated with airfoil section drag rise at supercritical speeds . a study of experimental pressure distributions and section characteristics for several moderately thick airfoil sections was made . a correlation appears to exist between the drag-divergence mach number and the free-stream mach number for which sonic velocity occurs at the airfoil crest, the chordwise station at which the airfoil surface is tangent to the free-stream direction . it was found that, since the mach number for which sonic velocity occurs at the airfoil crest can be estimated satisfactorily by means of the prandtl-glauert rule, a method is provided whereby the drag-divergence mach number of an airfoil section at a given angle of attack can be estimated from the low-speed pressure distribution and the airfoil profile . this method was used to predict with a reasonable degree of accuracy the drag-divergence mach number of a considerable number of airfoil sections having diverse shapes and a wide range of thickness-chord ratios . the pressure distributions and section force characteristics of several moderately thick airfoil sections at mach numbers above the drag-divergence mach number were analyzed . some of the characteristics of the flow over these airfoils at supercritical mach numbers are discussed .
71|laminar boundary layer behind shock advancing into stationary fluid .|laminar boundary layer behind shock advancing into stationary fluid . a study was made of the laminar compressible boundary layer induced by a shock wave advancing into a stationary fluid bounded by a wall . for weak shock waves, the boundary layer is identical with that which occurs when an infinite wall is impulsively set into uniform motion shocks . velocity and temperature profiles, recovery factors, and skin-friction and heat-transfer coefficients are tabulated for a wide range of shock strengths .
72|boundary layer behind shock or thin expansion wave moving into stationary fluid .|boundary layer behind shock or thin expansion wave moving into stationary fluid . the boundary layer behind a shock or thin expansion wave advancing into a stationary fluid has been determined . laminar and turbulent boundary layers were considered . the wall surface temperature behind the wave was also investigated . the assumption of a thin expansion wave is valid for weak expansions but becomes progressively less accurate for strong expansion waves . the laminar-boundary-layer problem was solved by numerical integration except for the weak wave case, which can be solved analytically . integral (karman-pohlhausen type) solutions were also obtained to provide a guide for determining expressions which accurately represent the numerical data . analytical expressions for various boundary-layer parameters are presented which agree with the numerical integrations within 1 percent . the turbulent-boundary-layer problem was solved using integral methods similar to those employed for the solution of turbulent compressible flow over a semi-infinite flat plate . the fluid velocity, relative to the wall, was assumed to have a seventh-power profile . the blasius equation, relating turbulent skin friction and boundary-layer thickness, was utilized in a form which accounted for compressibility . consideration of the heat transfer to the wall permitted the wall surface temperature, behind the wave, to be determined . the wall thickness was assumed to be greater than the wall thermal-boundary-layer thickness . it was found that the wall temperature was uniform (as a function of distance behind the wave) for the laminar-boundary-layer case but varied with distance for the turbulent-boundary-layer case .
73|investigation of the stability of the laminar boundary layer in a compressible fluid .|investigation of the stability of the laminar boundary layer in a compressible fluid . in the present report the stability of two-dimensional laminar flows of a gas is investigated by the method of small perturbations . the chief emphasis is placed on the case of the laminar boundary layer . part 1 of the present report deals with the general mathematical theory . the general equations governing one normal mode of the small velocity and temperature disturbances are derived and studied in great detail . it is found that for reynolds numbers of the order of those encountered in most aerodynamic problems, the temperature disturbances have only a negligible effect on those particular velocity solutions which depend primarily on the viscosity coefficient (/viscous solutions/) . indeed, the latter are actually of the same form in the compressible fluid as in the incompressible fluid, at least to the first approximation . because of this fact, the mathematical analysis is greatly simplified . the final equation determining the characteristic values of the stability problem depends on the /inviscid solutions/ and the function of tietjens in a manner very similar to the case of the incompressible fluid . the second viscosity coefficient and the coefficient of heat conductivity do not enter the problem,. only the ordinary coefficient of viscosity near the solid surface is involved . part 2 deals with the limiting case of infinite reynolds numbers . the study of energy relations is very much emphasized . it is shown that the disturbance will gain energy from the main flow if the gradient of the product of mean density and mean vorticity near the solid surface has a sign opposite to that near the outer edge of the boundary layer . a general stability criterion has been obtained in terms of the gradient of the product of density and vorticity, analogous to the rayleigh-tollmien criterion for the case of an incompressible fluid . if this gradient vanishes for some value of the velocity ratio of the main flow exceeding 1-1/m (where m is the free stream mach number) .
74|an experimental study of the turbulen coundary layer on a shock tube wall .|an experimental study of the turbulen coundary layer on a shock tube wall . interferometric measurements were made of the density profiles of an unsteady turbulent boundary layer on the flat wall of a shock tube . the investigation included both subsonic and supersonic flow (mach numbers of 0.50 and 1.77) with no pressure gradient and with heat transfer to a cold wall . velocity profiles and average skin-friction coefficients were calculated . effects on the velocity profile of surface roughness and flow length are examined .
75|studies of structural failure due to acoustic loading .|studies of structural failure due to acoustic loading . some discussion of the acoustic fatigue problem of aircraft structures is given along with data pertaining to the acoustic inputs from some powerplants in common use . comparisons are given for results of some fatigue tests of flat panels and cantilever beams exposed to both random- and discrete-type inputs . in this regard it appears that both the stress level of the test and the type of model are significant,. hence, no generalization can be made at this time . with regard to increasing the fatigue life, it was noted that increased stiffening of a panel due to curvature and pressure differential is particularly beneficial .
76|flight measurement of wall pressure fluctuations and boundary-layer turbulence .|flight measurement of wall pressure fluctuations and boundary-layer turbulence . the results are presented for a flight test program using a fighter type jet aircraft flying at pressure altitudes of 10,000, 20,000, and apparatus was used to measure and record the output of microphones and hot-wire anemometers mounted on the forward-fuselage section and wing of the airplane . mean-velocity profiles in the boundary layers were obtained from total-pressure measurements . the ratio of the root-mean-square fluctuating wall pressure to the free-stream dynamic pressure is presented as a function of reynolds number and mach number . the longitudinal component of the turbulent-velocity fluctuations was measured, and the turbulence-intensity profiles are presented for the wing and forward-fuselage section . in general, the results are in agreement with wind-tunnel measurements which have been reported in the literature . for example, the variation of (is the root mean square of the wall-pressure fluctuation, and q is the free-stream dynamic pressure) with reynolds number was found to be essentially constant for the forward fuselage-section boundary layer, while variations at the wing station were probably unduly affected by the microphone diameter, which was large compared with the boundary-layer thickness .
77|a comparative analysis of the performance of long range hypervelocity vehicles .|a comparative analysis of the performance of long range hypervelocity vehicles . long-range hypervelocity vehicles are studied in terms of their motion in powered flight, and their motion and aerodynamic heating in unpowered flight . powered flight is analyzed for an idealized propulsion system which rather closely approaches present-day rocket motors . unpowered flight is characterized by a return to earth along a ballistic, skip, or glide trajectory . only those trajectories are treated which yield the maximum range for a given velocity at the end of powered flight . aerodynamic heating is treated in a manner similar to that employed previously by the senior authors in studying ballistic missiles (naca tn 4047), with the exception that radiant as well as convective heat transfer is considered in connection with glide and skip vehicles . the ballistic vehicle is found to be the least efficient of the several types studied in the sense that it generally requires the highest velocity at the end of powered flight in order to attain a given range . this disadvantage may be offset, however, by reducing convective heat transfer to the re-entry body through the artifice of increasing pressure drag in relation to friction drag - that is, by using a blunt body . thus the kinetic energy required by the vehicle at the end of powered flight may be reduced by minimizing the mass of coolant material involved . the glide vehicle developing lift-drag ratios in the neighborhood of and greater than 4 is far superior to the ballistic vehicle in ability to convert velocity into range . it has the disadvantage of having far more heat convected to it,. however, it has the compensating advantage that this heat can in the main be radiated back to the atmosphere . consequently, the mass of coolant material may be kept relatively low . the skip vehicle developing lift-drag ratios from about 1 to 4 is found to be superior to comparable ballistic and glide vehicles in converting velocity into range . at lift-drag ratios below 1 it is found to be about equal to comparable ballistic vehicles while at lift-drag ratios
78|an analytical treatment of aircraft propeller precession instability .|an analytical treatment of aircraft propeller precession instability . an analytical investigation is made of a precession-type instability which can occur in a flexibly supported aircraft-engine-propeller combination . by means of an idealized mathematical model which is comprised of a rigid power-plant system flexibly mounted in pitch and yaw to a fixed backup structure, the conditions required for neutral stability are determined . the paper also examines the sensitivity of the stability boundaries to changes in such parameters as stiffness, damping, and asymmetries in the engine mount, propeller speed, airspeed, mach number, propeller thrust, and location of pitch and yaw axes . stability is found to depend strongly on the damping and stiffness in the system . with the use of nondimensional charts theoretical stability boundaries are compared with experimental results obtained in wind-tunnel tests of an aeroelastic airplane model . in general, the theoretical results, which do not account for wing response, show the same trends as observed experimentally,. however, for a given set of conditions calculated airspeeds for neutral stability are consistently lower than the measured values . evidently, this result is due to the fact that wing response tends to add damping to the system .
79|effects of extreme surface cooling on boundary layer transition .|effects of extreme surface cooling on boundary layer transition . an investigation was made to determine the combined effects of surface cooling, pressure gradients, nose blunting, and surface finish on boundary-layer transition . data were obtained for various body shapes at a mach number of 3.12 and reynolds numbers per foot as high as 15x10 . previous transition studies, with moderate cooling, have shown agreement with the predictions of stability theory . for surface roughnesses ranging from 4 to 1250 microinches the location of transition was unaffected with moderate cooling . with extreme cooling, an adverse effect was observed for each of the parameters investigated . in general, the transition reynolds number decreased with decreasing surface temperature . in particular, the beneficial effects of a favorable pressure gradient obtained with moderate cooling disappear with extreme cooling, and a transition reynolds number lower than that observed on a cone is obtained . further, an increase in the nose bluntness decreased the transition reynolds number under conditions of extreme cooling .
80|effect of distributed three-dimensional roughness and surface cooling on boundary layer transition and lateral spread of turbulence at supersonic speeds .|effect of distributed three-dimensional roughness and surface cooling on boundary layer transition and lateral spread of turbulence at supersonic speeds . an investigation was made in the langley 4 by 4-foot supersonic pressure tunnel at mach numbers of 1.61 and 2.01 to determine (1) the effect of distributed roughness on boundary-layer transition with the model surface at adiabatic wall temperature and cooled and (2) the effect of surface cooling on the lateral spread of turbulence . both distributed granular-type and single spherical roughness particles were used, and transition of the boundary layer was determined by hot-wire anemometers . the transition-triggering mechanism of the three-dimensional roughness at supersonic speeds appeared to be the same as that previously observed at subsonic speeds . in fact, the critical value of the roughness reynolds number parameter (that is, the value at which turbulent spots are initiated by the roughness) was found to be approximately the same at supersonic and subsonic speeds when complete local conditions at the top of the roughness, including density and viscosity, were considered in the formulation of the roughness reynolds number . for three-dimensional roughness at a reynolds number less than its critical value, the roughness introduced no disturbances of sufficient magnitude to influence transition . surface cooling, although providing a theoretical increase in stability to small disturbances, did not increase to any important extent the value of the critical roughness reynolds number for three-dimensional roughness particles . cooling, therefore, because of its effect on the boundary-layer thickness, density, and viscosity actually promoted transition due to existing three-dimensional surface roughness for given mach and reynolds numbers . the measured lateral spread of turbulence in the boundary layer appeared to be unaffected by the increased laminar stability derived from the surface cooling .
81|compressible laminar flow and heat transfer about a rotating isothermal disk .|compressible laminar flow and heat transfer about a rotating isothermal disk . the flow and heat transfer about a rotating isothermal disk are re-examined to include the effects of compressibility and property variations . if viscous dissipation is neglected, the compressible problem is correlated to the incompressible problem by assuming linear variations of viscosity and thermal conductivity with temperature . certain inaccuracies in several previous incompressible solutions are noted and corrected herein . the effect of compressibility appears as a distortion of the normal coordinate and normal velocity component and as a multiplicative factor in the heat-transfer coefficient, the nusselt number, and in the expressions for the skin-friction components and torque required to rotate the disk .
82|theoretical investigation of the ablation of a glass-type heat protection shield of varied material properties at the stagnation point of a re-entering irbm .|theoretical investigation of the ablation of a glass-type heat protection shield of varied material properties at the stagnation point of a re-entering irbm . the melting-type heat protection at the stagnation point of a re-entering irbm is treated by employing homogeneous, opaque, and nondecomposing glass shields which do not exceed a temperature of some effects due to variations of the glass properties . the ballistic re-entry vehicle has a nose diameter of 0.635 m, a ballistic factor of 3.5 x 10, a re-entry angle of 124.9 (from the vertical) at an altitude of 100 km, and a re-entry speed of 4.5 . the performance of 36 different glass shields with assumed combinations of material properties is investigated by employing a calculation method which yields practically exact, transient solutions for the problem . as a corollary, results for a certain steady flight state are also given . the discussions made it possible to derive under realistic flight conditions some thermal characteristics for the employment of thin, or light-weight, glass shields . investigation of these hypothetical glass shields leads to the conclusion that a low thermal conductivity and a high specific heat, and thus, a small thermal diffusivity are most desirable . a small thermal diffusivity yields high surface temperatures, causing a high radiative heat transfer out of the shield,. and steep temperature profiles normal to the surface, causing a small thermal penetration across the shield with little total ablation of the shield . results show that for the assumed irbm re-entry, the necessary thickness of the employed glass shields increases monotonically with thermal diffusivity which is the only material parameter affecting this thickness . a high viscosity level and a high emissivity constant of the surface of the supposedly opaque shield are also desirable,. although, these two properties exert a comparatively small influence on the overall performance when disregarding glass shields with an extremely low viscosity level .
83|discussion of solar proton events and manned space flights .|discussion of solar proton events and manned space flights . as a result of studies made during the international geophysical year (igy) and the international geophysical cooperation (igc), it is known that a considerable fraction of large solar flares give rise to almost pure streams of protons which reach the earth and continue to arrive for as long as 11 days . the energies of these particles lie within a very steep spectrum extending from 20 to least 500 mev . because of the frequency of large flares during times of high solar activity, and owing to the long duration of each solar proton emission, these particles were present in detectable intensity near the top of the earth's atmosphere for about 15 percent of the time from 1957 to 1960 . the number of large flares that accelerated and released these particles during this three-year period was about 30 . the event that began on august 22, 1958 contributed greatly toward the understanding of the solar and terrestrial sequence of events, and in addition provided the first identification of the emitted particles . a flare on may of protons in the neighborhood of the earth that this phenomenon was recognized as an additional radiation hazard to manned vehicles in the high atmosphere and in most parts of the solar system . the three very intense events that occurred in july, 1959 further supported this conclusion, and the possibility of predicting such events became an important consideration . in addition to its value in the protection of human beings, effective forecasting clearly would be of great value in the detailed scientific study of this phenomenon . this paper presents a preliminary discussion of some aspects of predicting the arrival of protons at the earth following the appearance of solar activity features and, equally important, of forecasting the periods when this penetrating radiation is unlikely to occur .
84|experimental investigation of the downstream influence of stagnation point mass transfer .|experimental investigation of the downstream influence of stagnation point mass transfer . this report presents the results of an experimental investigation of the downstream influence of localized mass transfer in the stagnation region of a blunt body under hypersonic flow conditions . the coolant is injected through a porous plug coaxial with the centerline of symmetry of the model . the tests were carried out in a wind tunnel with a mach number of 6.0, stagnation temperatures of approximately 1,600 r., and a stagnation pressure of approximately 600 psia . four different gases were injected over a range of mass flows . the heat transfer on the impermeable section was measured under isothermal wall conditions,. for the higher rates of mass flow, adiabatic surface temperatures were also determined . the theoretical analysis of the boundary-layer flow is investigated in order to establish the similarity parameters for the flow system . these parameters permit the extrapolation of the test results to other flow conditions, provided that laminar flow prevails . helium is found to be the most efficacious coolant .
85|on trails of axisymmetric hypersonic blunt bodies flying through the atmosphere .|on trails of axisymmetric hypersonic blunt bodies flying through the atmosphere . the trail left in the atmosphere by a body moving at hypersonic speeds is the subject of theoretical treatment . the times required for ionization and dissociation (and their inverse processes) to go to completion, when compared to the flow times of a gas particle, are important in determining the observable effects of hypersonic trails-i.e., emitted thermal radiation and reflection of electromagnetic waves from the trail . in order to simplify the theoretical treatment, the trail is divided into two regions .. (1) the expansion-controlled trail, which treats the behavior of the wake behind the body up to a point, along the direction of flight, where the pressure decays to the free-stream value and cooling is controlled principally by the expansion of the flow, and (2) the conduction-controlled trail, where the trail cools mainly by diffusion of heat away from the high-temperature core . the influence of the details of the body shape on the observables are discussed and a simple computational procedure for the behavior of the conduction-controlled trail is developed based on integral methods . results of calculations that assume thermodynamic equilibrium of the flow field give the values of the thermodynamic variables in the trail of a sphere, axial distributions of emitted thermal radiation, and maps of electron density distribution . it is shown that the cooling of the conduction-controlled trail is essentially due to conduction of heat and that viscous effects are not important . it is found that this portion of the trail does not widen as one proceeds downstream . flight velocities considered vary between 15,000 and 35,000 ft sec and altitudes range between 100,000 and 250,000 ft .
87|free-convection magnetohydrodynamic flow past a porous flat plate .|free-convection magnetohydrodynamic flow past a porous flat plate . the incompressible flow of an electrically conducting fluid past a porous plate with constant suction velocity in the presence of a transverse uniform strength has recently been investigated by gupta . in this note, the problem is generalized to take into account the effect of free convection, when a body force is acting parallel to the wall . the fluid is assumed to be semi-incompressible as usual . in addition to the obvious practical significance, this problem is also interesting in the sense that it provides another exact solution of the magnetohydrodynamic equations, since the only electromagnetic assumptions involved are constant properties and freedom from excessive charges .
88|magnetohydrodynamic free-convection pipe flow .|magnetohydrodynamic free-convection pipe flow . it has been shown that transverse magnetic fields of practical strengths exert considerable influence on liquid-metal, free-convection, vertical, flat-plate and parallel-plate flow fields . the extent of influence was determined by the magnitude of a nondimensional parameter a which is the ratio of the hartmann number to the fourth root of the grashof number, and is a measure of the relative influence of the magnetic and buoyant forces . in this note the steady, fully developed, laminar, free-convection flow of a fluid of electrical conductivity through a fully submerged, open-ended, constant-temperature, vertical pipe located in a transverse magnetic field of strength is analyzed in terms of the same parameter . the magnitude of its influence on the velocity and temperature profiles, the surface shear and heat transfer, and the volumetric flow rate is determined .
89|an investigation of separated flows, part i: the pressure field .|an investigation of separated flows, part i: the pressure field . the present article describes an investigation of several types of separated regions such as blunt-base wakes and cavities formed in cutouts in the boundaries and ahead of or behind two dimensional steps in supersonic (mach numbers 2 to 4) and subsonic flow . the conditions for the existence, the geometry, and the pressure field are described in this paper . a second article (to be published) will describe investigations of the internal flow and the heat transfer across such separated regions . it is found that there is a maximum (critical) ratio of the length of the separated free-shear layer to the depth of the depression in the boundary beyond which the cavity collapses, leaving mutually independent separated regions at each protrusion . this critical length changes greatly upon laminar-turbulent transition in the oncoming boundary layer,. in either laminar or turbulent flow it is approximately independent of mach and reynolds numbers . a semiempirical correlation predicting the conditions under which the flow will span a depression of arbitrary depth is proposed . detailed pressure distributions along the boundaries of a cavity (in turbulent flow) are presented as a function of the ratio of the cavity length to the critical length, which is found to be the pertinent similarity parameter . for short notches the impact pressure due to the reversal of the inner portion of the shear layer at recompression tends to thicken the shear layer and a type of boundary layer-free stream interaction governs the pressure field . the pressure in the cavity is nearly constant and can be higher than free-stream . in long notches the shear layer bends inward at separation and curves back gradually ahead of the recompression point . the floor-pressure variation is pronounced and the recovery pressure at reattachment is small . the variation of the drag coefficient with mach number reflects the change from one to the other mechanism of recompression . detailed surveys of the mach-number distributions in a blunt-body wake and the mixing region behind its throat, as well as in the shear layer spanning a cutout in a wall, are presented and analyzed . it is found that, in general, the assumptions of the simple supersonic-wake models which rely on a principle of steady flow with mass conservation in the cavity are not adequate for cavities in which there is recompression against a boundary . results showing the influence of the thickness of the initial boundary layer (in the range of 0.3 to 3 times the notch depth) and of the geometry of the notch are also presented .
90|periodic temperature distributions in a two-layer composite slab .|periodic temperature distributions in a two-layer composite slab . an investigation to determine the feasibility of using an insulating thermal barrier to protect exposed solid propellant motors from atmospheric or environmental temperature variations has recently been completed . in one portion of this study, a solution was developed for the periodic temperature distribution in a two-layer composite slab . one exposed surface of this composite slab was adiabatic, and the other exposed surface was subjected to a sinusoidal temperature variation . the technique used in the analysis was similar to that of grober . in this note, pertinent features of the development of the solution are given .
91|periodic temperature distribution in a two-layer composite slab .|periodic temperature distribution in a two-layer composite slab . in a recent contribution to the reader's forum, under the above title, stonecypher outlined a method for finding the periodic temperature distribution in a two-layer composite slab, one exposed surface of the slab being insulated and the other subject to a sinusoidal temperature variation . perfect thermal contact between the two layers, and constant thermal properties were assumed . two years ago i drew attention in these pages to a method for determining the transient temperature in such a two-layer slab resulting from a triangular heat-input pulse . i should like to point out that this same method also is applicable to the case where one external face is given a sinusoidal temperature variation with time . the method is based on the analogy between one-dimensional heat flow and the flow of an electric current in a simple transmission line having only series resistance and parallel capacitance .
92|the analysis of redundant structures by the use of high-speed digital computers .|the analysis of redundant structures by the use of high-speed digital computers . large-scale redundant structure analyses are currently feasible by the use of modern high-speed digital computers . this capability opportunely meets the urgent need to solve complex problems which otherwise would be hopelessly beyond the capacity of the hand desk computer . however, the difficulties have now shifted from tedious hand computations to the problems of adequately representing the structure by a model and of the peculiarities of irregular geometrical configurations . a wide scope of problem types can be handled by a generalized program approach . matrix formulation is used for the organization of input data and for handling data transfer in the large complex of subroutines, including the formation of equilibrium and continuity conditions to the final loads and deflections . simultaneous treatment of thermal expansions and plasticity is included . the use of minimum-size redundant systems is emphasized, starting from the philosophy of cutting members to provide a statically determinate structure . improved numerical accuracy and problem size capacity is gained for a given computer . examples are discussed ranging from simple plane-load diffusion problems to pressurized fuselage cutouts and complex wing-fuselage-shell intersection-type problems .
93|the supersonic blunt body problem - review and extensions .|the supersonic blunt body problem - review and extensions . a survey of existing analytical treatments of the supersonic or hypersonic blunt-body problem indicates that none is adequate for predicting the details of the flow field . reasons are given for the failure of various plausible approximations . a numerical method, which is simpler than others proposed, is set forth for solving the full inviscid equations using a medium-sized electronic computer . results are shown from a number of solutions for bodies that support detached shock waves described by conic sections .
94|the transverse curvature effect in compressible axially symmetric laminar boundary layer flow .|the transverse curvature effect in compressible axially symmetric laminar boundary layer flow . the viscous transverse curvature effect in compressible axially symmetric laminar boundary-layer flow has been investigated, and it is found that the effect is characterized by the parameter which is essentially the ratio of the boundary-layer thickness to body radius . it is shown that the busemann and crocco integrals of the two-dimensional energy equation for are still valid for axially symmetric flow in which the transverse curvature effects are considered . by a generalization of mangler's transformation it is then shown that the boundary-layer equations are reducible to an almost two-dimensional form, making the analysis simpler for two asymptotic flow regions characterized by and less than or of the order of unity . it is with the latter region that the present paper is primarily concerned, and for this case it is shown that the additional term in the momentum and energy equations, which differentiates them from the two-dimensional form, behaves like an external favorable pressure gradient . except for certain special cases it is necessary to obtain the of the order of unity by means of asymptotic expansions in ascending powers of a parameter that is small compared to unity but proportional to . it is shown how the asymptotic solutions can be found for (1) the velocity and temperature distributions for the compressible zero pressure gradient case when the body shapes are given by and and (2) the velocity distribution for incompressible flow with an external velocity of the form past a body given by . the zeroth approximation is the mangler result . for the cases of a linear external velocity distribution, similar profiles can be found for all values of . more generally it is shown that similar profiles exist if the exponents n and m satisfy the condition that . here, similar is used in the restricted meaning that the distributions are derivable from ordinary differential equations . in the case of the cone and cylinder with zero pressure gradient where the equations have been numerically integrated for, the first-order correction to the mangler formulation shows that the effect on both the skin-friction coefficient and heat-transfer rate can become appreciable in the range where is less than or of the order of unity . at a constant, the effects are increased in magnitude when either the ratio of wall to free-stream temperature, or mach number, is increased . also, all other conditions being equal, for the same value of the skin-friction coefficient and heat-transfer increase on the cylinder is greater than that on the cone . for flows with pressure gradient, the transverse curvature term behaves again like a favorable pressure gradient and tends to delay both separation and transition when compared with axially symmetric flows in which the transverse curvature effect is neglected .
96|review of published data on the effect of roughness on transition from laminar to turbulent flow .|review of published data on the effect of roughness on transition from laminar to turbulent flow . a review is presented of the published data on the effect of roughness, especially single roughness elements, on transition from laminar to turbulent flow, in which an attempt is made to reanalyze and correlate the available information . the reanalysis shows that the transition reynolds number of a flat plate with zero pressure gradient is a function of the ratio of the height of the roughness element to the displacement thickness of the boundary layer at the element, this functional relation being a better representation of the data than a constant critical reynolds number of the roughness element . other data show that the effects of roghness are similar in streams of different initial turbulence and that a plot of the ratio of transition reynolds number of the rough plate to that for the smooth plate against the ratio of the height of the roughness element to displacement thickness of the boundary layer at the element gives good correlation of all the data for a given shape when transition occurs downstream from the roughness element . at a certain value of the height-thickness ratio dependent on the stream speed, location of roughness element, and airstream turbulence, the transition position reaches the element and remains there as the height or the stream speed is further increased . the paper also discusses available data on the effect of distributed roughness on transition on a flat plate, as well as some of the published data on roughness effects on transition on air-foils .
97|a mixing theory for the interaction between dissipative flows and nearly isentropic streams .|a mixing theory for the interaction between dissipative flows and nearly isentropic streams . by means of a simplified theoretical /model,/ the present paper treats the general class of flow problems characterized by the interaction between a viscous or dissipative flow near the surface of a solid body, or in its wake, and an /outer/ nearly isentropic stream . for the present, the external flow is taken to be a plane, steady, supersonic flow, which makes a small angle with a plane surface or plane of symmetry, although the methods used can be extended to curved surfaces, to axially symmetric supersonic flows, and also to subsonic flows . the internal dissipative flow is regarded as quasi-one-dimensional and parallel to the surface on the average, with a properly defined mean velocity and mean temperature . the nonuniformity of the actual velocity distribution is taken into account only approximately by means of a relation between mean temperature and mean velocity . mixing, or the transport of momentum from outer stream to dissipative flow, is considered to be the fundamental physical process determining the pressure rise that can be supported by the flow . with the aid of this concept, a large number of flow problems is shown to be basically similar, such as boundary-layer shockwave interaction, wake flow behind blunt-based bodies (base pressure problem), flow separation in overexpanded supersonic nozzles, separation on wings and bodies, etc .
98|heat transfer by laminar flow to a rotating plate .|heat transfer by laminar flow to a rotating plate . an exact solution of the heat-transfer problem for the von karman example of the laminar flow of a viscous fluid over a rotating plate is given in dimensionless form and physically discussed . the solution is explicitly given for a constant temperature on the plate with viscous dissipation included . the numerical results are given for prandtl numbers from 0.5 to 10 .
99|the fundamentals of the statistical theory of turbulence .|the fundamentals of the statistical theory of turbulence . statistical theory in general considers mean values of certain quantities . in the case of the turbulent motion one is interested in mean values of velocities and of their derivatives, and in mean values of squares and products of velocities and their derivatives . it was o. reynolds who first expressed the so-called apparent or turbulent stresses by the mean values of the products of the velocity components . the different theories suggested so far have as their common objective the establishment of relations between certain mean values, e.g. between the turbulent shear stresses given by the mean products of velocity fluctuations and the derivatives of the mean velocities, i.e. the measured mean velocity gradients . in this sort of investigations the conception of the /correlation/ is of paramount importance . the late a. friedman tried to introduce the correlations as unknown variables in the hydrodynamic equations., however, he could not carry his investigations to practical results, i.e., to results which can be compared with the experimental evidence . recently, g. i. taylor had success in his analysis of /isotropic/ turbulence by means of correlation calculations, and was able to discuss, theoretically, the problem of the decay of turbulence in a windstream behind a turbulence producing device . his theory raised considerable interest because it is concerned with the important problem of wind-tunnel turbulence and its results could be compared directly with experimental work done by dryden in this country and by fage, townend and simmons in england . the present paper is concerned with two fundamental problems.. with uniform isotropic turbulence and with the turbulent friction in a parallel stream . first, the general theory of isotropic turbulence is developed . this general theory includes taylor's consideration as a special case . however, it
100|vibration isolation of aircraft power plants .|vibration isolation of aircraft power plants . vibration in aircraft structure can almost always be traced to vibratory forces originating from the power plant . these forces are transmitted to the aircraft in two ways .. (1) by the action of air forces upon the surfaces of the aircraft in, or adjacent to, the slip stream of the propeller, and (2) by direct transmission of unbalanced forces from the power plant through the engine mounting . the latter has always caused the preponderance of disturbance . vibratory stresses induced in the engine mounting structure occasionally produce fatigue failures in the associated parts, and always shorten the useful life of the entire aircraft structure . more important, however, are the psychological and physiological effects of continuous vibration and its attendant noise on the passengers and crew . this may very likely be the major source of the rapid fatigue which is so intimately associated with flying . the importance and desirability of drastically reducing vibration can hardly be questioned . this paper is limited to a consideration of the directly transmitted forces and, further, considers the power plants as rigid bodies attached by flexible means to the aircraft which is also considered as a rigid body of relatively large mass . it is also limited to the case of engines and engine supporting structures having axial symmetry (radial engines), although the methods employed could easily be extended to other cases .
101|laminar heat transfer over blunt-nosed bodies at hypersonic flight speeds .|laminar heat transfer over blunt-nosed bodies at hypersonic flight speeds . this paper deals with two limiting cases of laminar heat transfer over blunt-nosed bodies at hypersonic flight speeds, or high stagnation temperatures.. (a) thermodynamic equilibrium, in which the chemical reaction rates are regarded as /very fast/ compared to the rates of diffusion across streamlines., (b) diffusion as rate-governing, in which the volume recombination rates within the boundary layer are /very slow/ compared to diffusion across streamlines . in either case the gas density near the surface of a blunt-nosed body is much higher than the density just outside the boundary layer, and the velocity and stagnation enthalpy profiles are much less sensitive to pressure gradient than in the more familiar case of moderate temperature differences . in fact, in case (a), the nondimensionalized enthalpy gradient at the surface is represented very accurately by the /classical/ zero pressure gradient value, and the surface heat-transfer rate distribution is obtained directly in terms of the surface pressure distribution . in order to illustrate the method, this solution is applied to the special cases of an unyawed hemisphere and an unyawed, blunt cone capped by a spherical segment . in the opposite limiting case where diffusion is rate-controlling the diffusion equation for each species is reduced to the same form as the low-speed energy equation, except that the prandtl number is replaced by the schmidt number . the simplifications introduced in case (a) are also applicable here, and the expression for surface heat transfer rate is similar., the maximum value of the ratio between the rate of heat transfer by diffusion alone and by heat conduction alone in the case of thermodynamic equilibrium is given by.. (prandtl no./schmidt no .) when the diffusion coefficient is estimated by taking a reasonable value of atom-molecule collision cross section this ratio is 1.30 . additional theoretical and (especially) experimental studies are clearly required before these simple results are accepted .
103|theory of mixing and chemical reaction in the opposed jet diffusion flame .|theory of mixing and chemical reaction in the opposed jet diffusion flame . an idealization of the flow system used by potter and butler is analyzed . the differential equation of mixing is solved exactly, to give the location of, and burning rate in, the flame . the solutions to the chemical kinetic differential equation are discussed, relations being derived between the jet flow rate at extinction, the chemical kinetic constants and the laminar flame speed in premixed gases . it is shown that the jet flow rate at extinction is independent of the transport properties . comparison is made with the experimental data of potter, heimel and butler . it is argued that experiments must be carried out at higher reynolds numbers if the measurements are to be quantitatively analyzable .
104|similar solutions of a free convection boundary layer equation for an electrically conducting fluid .|similar solutions of a free convection boundary layer equation for an electrically conducting fluid . author investigates the existence of a class of similar solutions for free convection from a vertical flat plate, such as are known for free convection in a nonconducting fluid . the magnetic field acts transversely to the fluid motion and is assumed to remain constant in the direction perpendicular to the plate . this introduces into the momentum equation a retarding force which is a function only of x, the distance along the plate length . for similarity it is found that the magnetic inductance must vary as . if the plate temperature is constant . if n = 0, the magnetic inductance is constant while the plate temperature increases linearly with x .
105|the asymptotic boundary layer on a circular cylinder in axial incompressible flow .|the asymptotic boundary layer on a circular cylinder in axial incompressible flow . in this paper the incompressible boundary layer over a circular cylinder in an axial flow is investigated far from the leading edge . if u and v are the velocity components in the x and r direction respectively and a stream function is introduced by and, then for a constant free-stream velocity has the following asymptotic form .. where the p's are determined successively, first for s=1 and all t, then s=2 and all t, etc., from ordinary differential equations . here and log c=euler's constant . it is shown that the effect of the curvature of the body (in planes perpendicular to the flow) is to increase the skin friction . also the case in which the free-stream velocity is proportional to (at the method breaks down), is studied . it is concluded that the effect of the curvature of the cylinder, when the boundary layer has a thickness comparable with its radius of curvature, is to delay separation .
106|the transverse potential flow past a body of revolution .|the transverse potential flow past a body of revolution . it is shown that in the potential flow of an incompressible inviscid fluid past a body of revolution set with its axis at right angles to the stream, the velocity components at the surface along and perpendicular to the meridians vary with azimuthal angle round the body in a simple manner . this is shown by entirely elementary considerations .
107|on the mixing of two parallel streams .|on the mixing of two parallel streams . using the techniques of boundary-layer theory, the proper third boundary condition for the mixing of two parallel streams is derived from the compatibility condition of the higher order approximation . it is shown that the commonly adopted third boundary condition of balancing of transverse momentum is correct only for the mixing problem of two semi-infinite incompressible streams . for the fulfillment of the proper third boundary condition, the possibility of introducing the similar solution of blasius type is examined for various cases .
108|properties of the confluent hypergeometric function .|properties of the confluent hypergeometric function . the confluent hypergeometric functions have proved useful in many branches of physics . they have been used in such problems involving diffusion and sedimentation, as isotope separation and protein molecular weight determinations in the ultracentrifuge . the solution of the equation for the velocity distribution of electrons in high frequency gas discharges may frequently be expressed in terms of these functions . the high frequency breakdown electric field may then be predicted theoretically for gases by the use of such solutions together with kinetic theory . this report presents some of the properties of the confluent hypergeometric functions together with six-figure tables of the functions .
109|the production of uniform shear flow in a wind tunnel .|the production of uniform shear flow in a wind tunnel . a nearly uniform shear flow was obtained in the working section of a wind tunnel by inserting a grid of parallel rods with varying spacing . the function of such a grid is to impose a resistance to the flow, so graded across the working section as to produce a linear variation in the total pressure at large distances downstream without introducing an appreciable gradient in static pressure near the grid . a method of calculating a suitable arrangement of the rods is described . although this method is strictly applicable only to weakly sheared flows, an experiment made with a grid designed for a shear parameter as large as 0.45 gave results in close agreement with the theory . there was no evidence from the experiment of any large-scale secondary flow accompanying the shear--a danger inherent in an empirical attempt to grade the resistance of the grid--nor was any tendency observed for the shear to decay with increasing distance from the grid .
110|dynamics of a dissociating gas .|dynamics of a dissociating gas . this is a lucid introduction to the effects of dissociation in gas dynamics . the problem in view is that of air flow past a bluff body at speeds somewhat above 2 km sec . thermodynamic equilibrium is assumed,. theories of near equilibrium for transport properties and of large departures from equilibrium being promised in parts 2 and 3 . following a survey of the equilibrium statistical thermodynamics of a pure dissociating diatomic gas, a new model is introduced . this /ideal dissociating gas/ is characterized by only three constants, the characteristic temperature, density and internal energy for dissociation . physically, it may be regarded as having its vibrational modes always just half excited (so that at low temperatures the ratio of specific heats approaches 4 3 rather then 7 5) . thermodynamic properties of the ideal gas are derived, and the oblique shock wave relations deduced in the /strong-shock/ approximation (including an elegant relation between the principal curvatures of any bow shock and the subsequent vorticity) . useful relations are given for the isentropic changes that take place along streamlines between shocks . various of these results are applied to the problem typified by a sphere flying at high mach number . the newtonian impact theory and its empirical modification are dismissed as lacking theoretical basis, in favor of the limit for large values of both mach number and density ratio across the shock . it is suggested that the zero surface pressure sometimes predicted by the latter theory corresponds to separation not of the flow but of the shock wave from the surface . an estimate is given for the subsequent shape of the shock . finally, another approximation is applied to the region near the stagnation streamline . the fluid is assumed incompressible, but rotational in accord with the shock relations,. and it is shown that a spherical shock corresponds to a concentric spherical body . the resulting surface pressure is within 1 per cent of that predicted by freeman's second approximation based on the newtonian-plus-centrifugal solution (same j. 1 (1956),
111|the laminar boundary layer equation: a method of solution by means of an automatic computer .|the laminar boundary layer equation: a method of solution by means of an automatic computer . a method, very suitable for use with an automatic computer, of solving the hartree-womersley approximation to the incompressible boundary-layer equation is developed . it is based on an iterative process and the choleski method of solving a simultaneous set of linear algebraic equations . the programming of this method for an automatic computer is discussed . tables of a solution of the boundary-layer equation in a region upstream of the separation point are given . in the upstream neighbourhood of separation this solution is compared with goldstein's asymptotic solution and the agreement is good .
112|steady motion of conducting fluids in pipes under transverse magnetic fields .|steady motion of conducting fluids in pipes under transverse magnetic fields . this paper studies the steady motion of an electrically conducting, viscous fluid along channels in the presence of an imposed transverse magnetic field when the walls do not conduct currents . the equations which determine the velocity profile, induced currents and field are derived and solved exactly in the case of a rectangular channel . when the imposed field is sufficiently strong the velocity profile is found to degenerate into a core of uniform flow surrounded by boundary layers on each wall . the layers on the walls parallel to the imposed field are of a novel character . an analogous degenerate solution for channels of any symmetrical shape is developed . the predicted pressure gradients for given volumes of flow at various field strengths are finally compared with experimental results for square and circular pipes .
113|acoustical signal detection in turbulent airflow .|acoustical signal detection in turbulent airflow . improvement in detected signal-to-noise ratio is obtained for a periodic signal masked by additive noise and turbulent noise backgrounds . comparisons are made between autocorrelation, crosscorrelation, and a combination of frequency filtering and crosscorrelation . although the latter method provided the greatest improvement, the crosscorrelation technique was the most successful single method . it turned out that the maximum improvement obtainable was limited by the dynamic range of the correlator computer and not by errors due to finite averaging time and scanning the delay . the improvement for signals masked by turbulent noise was found to be about 5 db less than that obtained for additive noise .
114|response of plates to a decaying and convecting randon pressure field .|response of plates to a decaying and convecting randon pressure field . following the methods of lyon, an analysis of the vibratory response of a plate to a random pressure field is given . the pressure correlation of the random field is assumed to have a scale small compared to the plate size, to decay exponentially, and to convect with constant speed over the plate . two cases are considered, one in which the convection speed is much less than the speed of free flexural waves in the plate, the other in which the convection speed is the same order as the flexural wave speed . the mean square plate displacement is shown to be relatively independent of convection for speeds much less than the flexural wave speed, and to increase significantly for speeds in the order of the flexural wave speed . it is shown that damping is usually, but not always, an effective means of vibration reduction . in the case of convection speeds much smaller than the flexural speed, the use of hysteretic damping for reduction of the displacement response is shown to be limited by the decay of the assumed random pressure field .
115|on turbulent lubrication .|on turbulent lubrication . the paper concerns the hydrodynamic turbulent motion in the lubricant layer . proceeding from the reynolds equations and introducing the approximations currently used in lubrication problems, owing to the lubricant film thickness, the general motion equations for turbulent lubrication are written . using the prandtl mixing length hypothesis, exact and approximate solutions are obtained for the velocity distribution into the lubricant layer . the results are discussed by pointing out the pressure gradient and the reynolds number influence on the velocity distributions, as well as the differences with respect to the laminar flow . in order to obtain simple formulae, the exact dependence of the rate of flow on the pressure gradient into a dimensionless form is replaced by a linear relation, the slope of which depends on the reynolds number . this approximation allows the obtainment of the pressure differential equation under a simple form . the pressure equation is integrated in case of journal bearings, by assuming a constant or a variable viscosity of the lubricant . the results are compared to the experimental data obtained by m. i. smith and d. d. fuller and the good qualitative agreement is pointed out .
116|the elliptic cylinder in a shear flow with hyperbolic velocity profile .|the elliptic cylinder in a shear flow with hyperbolic velocity profile . the stream function for the shear flow with hyperbolic velocity profile past an elliptic cylinder has been determined as an infinite series of mathieu functions . it is found that the stagnation streamline of the flow is displaced towards a region of higher velocity, this displacement increasing the main stream, (2) as the stream becomes progressively non-uniform, (3) with increase of minor axis length when the major axis length remains invariant . in each case the displacement reaches a limiting value as the cylinder moves away from the axis of symmetry of the stream . these limiting values are reached at critical distances from the axis of symmetry, which decrease as the stream becomes progressively non-uniform, but these distances are approximately independent of incidence . the pressure coefficients and the resultant force and moment coefficients associated with the cylinder have also been obtained, and investigated numerically for the flat plate type of cylinder .
117|the motion of a viscous liquid past a paraboloid .|the motion of a viscous liquid past a paraboloid . an approximate solution for the steady flow of incompressible viscous liquid past a paraboloid of revolution is described . an assumption is made for the form of the stokes stream function and substituted into the navier-stokes equations using paraboloidal coordinates . after making suitable approximations, a non-linear differential equation for a function f is deduced . the solutions of this equation depend on the reynolds number of the flow considered . examples found by numerical integration are given to illustrate the properties of the function f for reynolds numbers varying from 0.0001 to is found, and it is shown that this approximate solution tends to the perfect fluid flow away from the boundary, allowance being made for the displacement effect of what may be called the boundary layer .
118|the transonic flow of a compressible fluid through an axially symmetrical nozzle .|the transonic flow of a compressible fluid through an axially symmetrical nozzle . by a method similar to that developed by s. tomotika and k. tamada (quart. appl. math. 7, 381-397 (1950),. these rev. 11, 275) for computing two-dimensional mixed isentropic flows in the sonic region, the flow in the vicinity of the throat of an axially symmetrical nozzle is studied . several exact solutions to von karman's equation for axially symmetrical transonic flows are obtained and the one that gives flows through a converging and diverging nozzle is considered in detail . this solution consists of four branches of which two are rejected because of singularities . of the remaining two branches, one gives pure supersonic flow and the other gives taylor's type of flow with a local supersonic region in the throat . by varying a parameter, the latter branch approaches two asymptotes which yield meyer's type of asymmetrical flows .
119|conduction of fluctuating heat flow in a wall consisting of many layers .|conduction of fluctuating heat flow in a wall consisting of many layers . van gorcum has pointed to interesting and important analogies between the theory of a passive four-pole and the conduction of heat waves through stratiform bodies . this paper generalizes in certain regards van gorcum's ideas and draws their consequences for the case of a solid, bounded by two infinite parallel planes and consisting of any number of layers made from different materials .
120|measurement of convective heat transfer by means of the reynolds analogy .|measurement of convective heat transfer by means of the reynolds analogy . preston's method for measuring skin friction in pipes has been extended to include non-uniform flow, with and without pressure gradients, over flat surfaces . by means of a modified form of the reynolds analogy, the local convective heat transfer coefficient can be related to the skin friction, and it is proposed that the method be used in aerodynamic models of furnaces and in heat transfer plant of simple geometry . more investigations are required of the effects of fluid turbulence, surface roughness and surface curvature on convective heat transfer and skin friction .
121|a theory for base pressures in transonic and supersonic flow .|a theory for base pressures in transonic and supersonic flow . a physical flow model is devised based on the concepts of interaction between the dissipative shear flow and the adjacent free stream and the conservation of mass in the wake . four flow components are integrated in the model,. namely, the flow approaching the trailing edge, the expansion around the trailing edge, the mixing within the free-jet boundary, and the recompression at the end of the wake . a unique and stable solution results for the base pressure . theoretical results obtained for thin approaching boundary layer do not require empirical information and are, therefore, best suited to evaluate the merits of the theory . here emphasized is the case of isoenergetic constant-pressure mixing in the turbulent free-jet boundary and agreement is found between theory and experimental data .
123|the downstream influence of mass transfer at the nose of a slender cone .|the downstream influence of mass transfer at the nose of a slender cone . the influence of localized mass transfer at the nose of a slender cone under hypersonic flow conditions has been studied by experimental and theoretical means . two gaseous coolants, nitrogen and helium, are injected through a porous plug subtending a half angle of 30 . the effect of the mass transfer on the shock shape, pressure distribution, heat transfer, and transition are investigated . the experimental work involved tests in the mach-number-8.0 tunnel at pibal . the theoretical analysis involved a study of the effect of mass transfer on the shock stand-off distance and leads to an inviscid-flow parameter permitting the experimentally determined shock shape and pressure distribution to be extrapolated to other than test conditions and to other coolant gases . there is obtained the maximum value of this parameter resulting in no significant alteration of the pressure distribution on the cone and thus defining the flows in which boundary-layer-type similarity applies . significant reductions in heat transfer are obtained with injection . indeed, with small amounts of helium injection the peak heating is found to occur downstream on the cone and to be an order of magnitude less than would occur at the stagnation point without mass transfer . with nitrogen early transition is found to occur, so that local heating rates are actually increased over those prevailing at the same reynolds number without injection .
124|a summary of the supersonic pressure drag of bodies of revolution .|a summary of the supersonic pressure drag of bodies of revolution . a number of approximate theories for supersonic and hypersonic flow over bodies of revolution at zero angle of attack are appraised by a critical comparison with characteristics and second-order results, with the use of hypersonic similarity as a basis for the comparison . most of the approximate theories are inadequate except over very limited ranges of fineness ratio and mach number . the combination of second-order supersonic theory and second-order shock-expansion theory provides consistently good results throughout the supersonic speed range . on the basis of exact (or nearly exact) supersonic solutions and a limited amount of test data and theory in the transonic region, summary design curves are developed that give the pressure drag of conical and ogive noses and conical and ogive boattails over the complete range of transonic, supersonic, and hypersonic mach numbers . other shapes can be analyzed in the same manner, provided that an equivalent amount of data is available . the analysis is made with the assumption of inviscid flow, so that the effects of boundary-layer growth, shock boundary-layer interaction, and flow separation are not included . the present correlations provide a sound basis of inviscid-flow results from which these additional viscous effects can be evaluated .
125|measurements of skin friction of the compressible turbulent boundary layer on a cone with foreign gas injection .|measurements of skin friction of the compressible turbulent boundary layer on a cone with foreign gas injection . measurements of average skin friction of the turbulent boundary layer have been made on a 15 total included angle cone with foreign gas injection . measurements of total skin-friction drag were obtained at free-stream mach numbers of 0.3, 0.7, 3.5, and x 10 with injection of helium, air, and freon-12 through the porous wall . substantial reductions in skin friction are realized with gas injection within the range of mach numbers of this test . the relative reduction in skin friction is in accordance with theory--that is, the light gases are most effective when compared on a mass flow basis . there is a marked effect of mach number on the reduction of average skin friction,. this effect is not shown by the available theories . limited transition location measurements indicate that the boundary layer does not fully trip with gas injection but that the transition point approaches a forward limit with increasing injection . the variation of the skin-friction coefficient, for the lower injection rates with natural transition, is dependent on the flow reynolds number and type of injected gas,. and at the high injection rates the skin friction is in fair agreement with the turbulent boundary-layer results .
126|an investigation of two-dimensional supersonic base pressures .|an investigation of two-dimensional supersonic base pressures . an investigation of the base pressure behind wedges at mach numbers 2 and 3 in the laminar and the transitional regime is reported . temperature and velocity traverses through the mixing zone are shown and exploratory investigations of the wake vortex by use of hot wires and flow-visualization techniques are described . it is found that the laminar two-dimensional base pressure agrees well with chapman's theoretical predictions . the shear layer exhibits gross velocity distributions characteristic of the free jet mixing zone, but also shows disturbances that originate in the expansion-turning of the oncoming boundary layer . an interesting trailing vortex is observed, which is explained in terms of nonuniform mixing rate in the wake .
127|supersonic axially symmetric nozzles .|supersonic axially symmetric nozzles . at each of twenty-one exit mach numbers, ranging from 1.008 to 8.238, ten supersonic axially symmetric nozzle shapes with plane sonic surfaces have been computed on the eniac by the method of characteristics . the boundary of the shortest of each group of ten has a sharp edge at the sonic plane, while the others have smooth boundaries . this report describes the computational procedures and presents a sample of the results for twenty nozzles . more extensive and elaborate tables of the results of the entire computations are available at the ballistic research laboratories . nozzle contours can be obtained accurately from them by interpolation for exit mach numbers between 1.479 and 8.238 for a wide range of ratios of nozzle length to throat diameter .
128|effects of free stream vorticity on the behaviour of a viscous boundary layer .|effects of free stream vorticity on the behaviour of a viscous boundary layer . theoretical investigation is considered of the two-dimensional steady flow field at large distance from a finite object set in a viscous incompressible fluid . study is made of coordinate-type expansions for pressure and velocity for large r, uniformly in, for fixed reynolds number, assuming exact boundary conditions at infinity and regularity of flow with zero net mass flow across a simple curve enclosing the object . mathematical nature of the distinction between parameter and coordinate-type expansions is discussed with description of inner and outer expansions and matching techniques . a feature of the expansion procedure is the introduction of an artificial parameter . inner and outer expansions are matched with the aid of known solutions of the navier-stokes equations . analysis requires simple consideration of the heat and laplace equations without resort to special methods . paper is worth studying by those interested in asymptotic expansion procedures .
129|an investigation of the noise produced by a subsonic air jet .|an investigation of the noise produced by a subsonic air jet . to investigate the theoretical predictions of lighthill on aerodynamic sound, measurements have been made of the sound field of a 1 in. air jet issuing from a long pipe . the measurements have been made over a wide frequency band (30 to 10,000 cycles/sec.) and in one-third octave bands in this frequency range . the mean mach number at the pipe orifice was varied from 0.3 to 1.0 . the dependence of the apparent position of the noise sources on frequency and jet speed was investigated . at a given frequency a source is situated farther from the jet orifice the higher the jet speed . lower frequency sources appear farther downstream than ones of higher frequency, consistent with their association with larger eddies . the directional characteristics of the sound field at different frequencies and jet speeds are illustrated by means of scale diagrams showing lines of constant sound intensity . these sound fields are analyzed in terms of the moving quadrupole sources of lighthill's theory and good agreement obtained . it is shown that the apparent spread of the sources at low frequencies is due to the doppler effect . at low frequency relative to the frequency of maximum power output) the radiation is predominantly that of three mutually orthogonal longitudinal quadrupoles which, except for the effect of convection upon it, has a sound field like a monopole source . at higher frequencies the sound fields of lateral and longitudinal quadrupoles predominate .
130|the behaviour of non-linear systems .|the behaviour of non-linear systems . many of the phenomena that occur in the world around us are governed by nonlinear relationships . in the development of the mathematical sciences, the difficulties of nonlinear analysis have hindered the formulation of nonlinear concepts that would permit us to understand such phenomena . in the present article, our progress in understanding the behavior of nonlinear systems is reviewed and an attempt is made to present the resulting concepts in such a way that they may be applied with some generality to other problems .
131|two-dimensional jet mixing of a compressible fluid .|two-dimensional jet mixing of a compressible fluid . the mixing and divergence of a supersonic jet exhausting into a supersonic stream are investigated theoretically . in the first part of this paper, the flow is assumed to be laminar . when the velocity and temperature in the jet are different slightly from those of the surrounding stream, by the method of small perturbations and under ordinary boundary layer assumptions, the equation of motion of two-dimensional flow will be reduced to a form of the well-known equation of heat conduction, whose solution is known for any given boundary conditions . it has also been shown that the exact solution of the two dimensional jet mixing of viscous compressible fluids can be obtained by successive approximations starting with the solution of small perturbations . velocity and temperature distributions for two cases--one is the mixing of two-uniform flows and the other is the mixing of a jet of compressible fluid from a two-dimensional nozzle with full expansion exhausting into a supersonic stream--have been calculated . the properties of the jet mixing depend mainly on the momentum of the jet regardless of whether the change of momentum is due to the change of velocity or the change of temperature--i.e., the change of density . compressibility has a considerable effect on the properties of the jet . in the second part, the cases of turbulent flow are investigated . by means of reichardt's theory of free turbulence, the turbulent shearing stress may be expressed as it has been shown in this paper that where is a constant that can be determined experimentally . the value of n lies between 0 and 1 . the exact value of n depends on the condition of mixing . when the expression of turbulent shearing stress given above is used instead of the viscous stress in the equation of motion, by suitable transformation of variables, it has been shown that the equation of two-dimensional turbulent jet mixing is identical to that of the laminar case . hence, the solution of the first part of this paper can be applied to the turbulent case, provided that the characteristic constants and n have been properly chosen .
132|viscosity effects in sound waves of finite amplitude: in survey in mechanics .|viscosity effects in sound waves of finite amplitude: in survey in mechanics . this article has as its subject /the conflicting influence on sound propagation of convection on the one hand, and of diffusion and relaxation on the other/, whose importance in the determination of the structure of shock waves was first appreciated clearly by sir geoffrey taylor . as an essential introduction to the main topics, author gives an exceptionally clear and valuable account of the physical mechanisms of viscosity, thermal conductivity, and other diffusion effects, including relaxation . the classical theory of shock-wave formation is then discussed, and some extensions are made . the remainder of the article is based on the demonstration that the nonlinear equation for plane progressive sound waves, in which convection and diffusion are taken into account to a first approximation, can be transformed into burgers's equation, the general solution of which was given by hopf and cole . this approach, in which all flows are continuous (they become discontinuous at shock waves in the limit as viscosity, etc., tend to zero), allows the author to re-derive and extend whitham's theory of the formation and decay of weak plane shock waves, and to derive many new results, such as the velocity distributions during the union of two shock waves and during the formation of a shock wave . the application of the same idea to non-plane shock waves is also discussed, but more briefly,. in these cases, burgers's equation is not quite such a good approximation as before . the article concludes with sections on sound waves whose reynolds numbers based on the length scale of the flow and the velocity amplitude are comparable with unity, and on the effects of relaxation on the properties of shock waves . the whole is much more than a survey, and represents a very substantial advance in the theory of sound waves . it is the finest possible tribute to sir geoffrey taylor that he should be able to inspire articles such as this and the others in this volume .
133|some effects of surface curvature on laminar boundary layer flow .|some effects of surface curvature on laminar boundary layer flow . the laminar flow of a viscous incompressible fluid over a two-dimensional curved surface is investigated for two cases, one in which the curvature is /large/ and the other in which it is cases are obtained as approximations from the exact equations of motion by an order-of-magnitude analysis . these equations are solved for flow over a particular surface with zero surface pressure gradient . in this analysis, the pressure gradient normal to the surface is included, and the outer boundary conditions are modified in accordance with the requirements of flow over a curved surface . the results indicate that for equal reynolds numbers, the stress on convex surfaces is less than the flat-plate value, while the stress on concave surfaces is greater than for a flat plate . the most important effect of surface curvature, for the cases considered, is the modification of the shape of the velocity profile near the /outer edge/ of the boundary layer . the requirement that a smooth transition exist between the viscous flow and the potential flow at the outer edge of the layer causes the profile to have a negative slope near the outer edge for convex surface curvature and a positive slope for concave surface curvature .
134|note on an interaction between the boundary layer and the inviscid flow .|note on an interaction between the boundary layer and the inviscid flow . according to the classical boundary-layer theory the flow about bodies at reynolds numbers of aeronautical interest can be considered as composed of two regimes.. an outside inviscid flow and a thin boundary-layer region adjacent to the body . this point of view leads to the approximation that, on a slightly curved surface, throughout the layer is negligibly small . the additional assumption that the inviscid flow is irrotational leads to the requirement that is zero at the outer edge of the boundary layer . in this theory any interaction between the two regimes is accountable by a simple correction to the body shape based on the boundary-layer displacement thickness . recently, in connection with hypersonic laminar boundary layers, this classical point of view has been modified., an interaction between the two flow regimes leading to a self-induced axial pressure gradient has been considered . it is the purpose of the present note to point out another type of interaction which may be of practical importance and of fundamental interest even at mach numbers below those considered in the hypersonic boundary-layer theory and which may have to be considered in that theory .
135|the calculation of wall shearing stress from heat-transfer measurements in compressible flows .|the calculation of wall shearing stress from heat-transfer measurements in compressible flows . it has been shown by ludwieg that the wall shearing stress of a laminar or turbulent boundary layer in an incompressible flow can be determined from a heat-transfer measurement at the surface . the instrument used in that investigation was essentially a small, locally insulated, heating element embedded in the test surface . the size of the instrument was restricted by the condition that the thermal boundary layer generated by the heating element be contained locally within the laminar sublayer . in the present analysis ludweig's theory for such an instrument is extended to compressible flow over an insulated flat plate . with the same limitations on the design and operation of the instrument as mentioned above, it can also be assumed for compressible laminar and turbulent boundary layers that only the flow in the immediate vicinity of the wall or the laminar sublayer will be affected in the region of the heated element . this assumption then permits the use of the laminar boundary-layer equations as the governing equations for this analysis for both laminar and turbulent boundary layers .
136|recent developments in rocket nozzle configurations .|recent developments in rocket nozzle configurations . existing configurations of supersonic portion of rocket nozzles are described and compared . survey covers bell-type conical and contoured nozzles, annular nozzles, plug nozzles, and the author's own /e-d/ (expansion-deflection) nozzle . the latter is a bell-type nozzle in which the gases are first deflected radially outward by a small central plug, then expanded radially inward around the base of the plug, and finally deflected back to a nearly axial direction by the nozzle wall, in compressive turning .
137|the generation of sound by aerodynamic means .|the generation of sound by aerodynamic means . a summary is given of some of the more important experimental results relating to the noise radiated from a cold subsonic turbulent jet . these are then related to the predictions of lighthill's general theory of aerodynamic noise .
138|wakes in axial compressors .|wakes in axial compressors . the tendency in the past has been to assume that when wakes or non-uniform total head profiles are fed into an axial compressor then substantially constant static pressure prevails at the entry, the variations in total head appearing as variations in velocity . this variation in velocity causes variation in incidence on the early stage blade rows and thus can give rise to excitation of blade vibration . this assumption is implicit, for instance, in references 1 and 2, but we think has been a common assumption by most of the people working in this field . where the compressor is fed by a duct of substantially parallel walls for a reasonable length ahead, such an assumption appeared justifiable . such a duct when given an air flow test with its outlet discharging, for instance, to atmosphere instead of to the compressor, then the distribution assumed would normally be obtained and in fact many surveys of such ducts have been represented in this fashion . the object of this note is to show that, in fact, this distribution will not normally occur when the compressor is present and we may normally expect much more nearly a constant velocity into the compressor with attendant static pressure distributions to match with the total head variations ahead of the intake, with of course, the attendant curved flow to support the static pressure gradients .
139|viscous effects on pitot tubes at low speeds .|viscous effects on pitot tubes at low speeds . measurements were made of the pressure in a blunt-nosed pitot tube, in an air stream at reynolds numbers from about 15 to 1000 . the results are expressed in terms of a pressure coefficient density of the fluid, and p and v are the static pressure and velocity in the undisturbed stream . as found in previous investigations, becomes greater than 1 at low reynolds numbers, the increase being about at a reynolds number of 50 (based on external tube radius) . in disagreement with the work of hurd, chesky, and shapiro, no decrease of below 1 was found at any reynolds number . when the values of found by various experiments are plotted against reynolds numbers based on internal tube radius, it is found that the curves are in closer agreement than when the external radius is used .
140|the determination of turbulent skin friction by means of pitot tubes .|the determination of turbulent skin friction by means of pitot tubes . a simple method of determining local turbulent skin friction on a smooth surface has been developed which utilises a round pitot tube resting on the surface . assuming the existence of a region near the surface in which conditions are functions only of the skin friction, the relevant physical constants of the fluid and a suitable length, a universal non-dimensional relation is obtained for the difference between the total pressure recorded by the tube and the static pressure at the wall, in terms of the skin friction . this relation, on this assumption, is independent of the pressure gradient . the truth and form of the relation were first established, to a considerable degree of accuracy, in a pipe using four geometrically similar round pitot tubes--the diameter being taken as representative length . these four pitot tubes were then used to determine the local skin friction coefficient at three stations on a wind tunnel wall, under varying conditions of pressure gradient . at each station, within the limits of experimental accuracy, the deduced skin friction coefficient was found to be the same for each pitot tube, thus confirming the basic assumption and leaving little doubt as to the correctness of the skin friction so found . pitot traverses were then made in the pipe and in the boundary layer on the wind tunnel wall . the results were plotted in two non-dimensional forms on the basis already suggested and they fell close together in a region whose outer limit represented the breakdown of the basic assumption, but close to the wall the results spread out, due to the unknown displacement of the effective centre of a pitot tube near a wall . this again provides further evidence of the existence of a region of local dynamical similarity and of the correctness of the skin friction deduced from measurements with round pitot tubes on the wind tunnel wall . the extent of the region in which the local dynamical similarity may be expected to hold appears to vary from about to of the boundary-layer thickness for conditions remote from, and close to, separation respectively .
141|free-flight techniques for high speed aerodynamic research .|free-flight techniques for high speed aerodynamic research . the development rocket-borne and rocket-launched high-speed airplane model test is described . details of airborne components, telemetering units, tracking, and their calibration are also discussed . tests on controls, drag measurements, longitudinal stability evaluations, lift measurements, pressure measurements, aeroelastic estimations, and sonic bang recordings are effected . the reynolds numbers involved are much higher than are usual in the wind tunnel, and extensions of mach numbers are obtained beyond the tunnel limits, both free of the tunnel wall interference .
143|interplanetary orbits .|interplanetary orbits . the basic equations under simplified conditions for interplanetary flight are derived . for a voyage from planet to planet an unlimited number of orbits is possible . in order to give a clear survey of these possible orbits a diagram is developed from which the approximate energy-requirement, the duration, and other particulars of a voyage can be easily found .
144|heat flow in composite slabs .|heat flow in composite slabs . this paper presents the solution of the heat flow problem in composite walls under heat transfer conditions which are typical of uncooled rocket engine walls . analytic expressions in the form of fourier sums are obtained for the temperature distribution in a composite wall consisting of an inner (refractory) medium and an outer metallic) medium under newtonian heat transfer into the first medium with negligible heat transfer from the second medium to the exterior . the expressions obtained are based on a plane parallel composite slab as a representative model for relatively thin cylindrical walls, with thickness-to-radius ratio not exceeding 0.2 . the general results for the composite slab are simplified for the limiting cases of a thin refractory shield with a thick shielded medium and a thick refractory shield with a thin shielded medium .
145|skin friction in the laminar boundary layer in compressible flow .|skin friction in the laminar boundary layer in compressible flow . from an analysis of the work of crocco and others, semi-empirical formulae are derived for the skin friction on a flat plate at zero incidence with a laminar boundary layer . these formulae are for the general case of heat transfer, and when there is no heat transfer . the problem of heat transfer and the effect of radiation are discussed in the light of these formulae . the second formula is then utilised in the development of an approximate method for solving the momentum equation of the boundary layer on a cylinder without heat transfer . the method indicates that with increase of mach number there is a marked forward movement of separation from a flat plate in the presence of a constant adverse velocity gradient .
146|supersonic flow past slender bodies with discontinuous profile slope .|supersonic flow past slender bodies with discontinuous profile slope . ward's slender-body theory is extended to derive first approximations to the external forces on slender bodies of general cross section with discontinuous profile slope . two classes of body are considered .. bodies whose profile (typified by the local radius) is continuous between the nose and base, and certain bodies whose profile is discontinuous, such as bodies with annular or side air intakes and wing-bodies on which the wing has an unswept leading edge . (where air intakes are concerned, it is assumed that they are sharp-edged and that there is no /spillage/ of the internal flow) . the following conclusions apply to the former class of bodies . the variation of drag with mach number is found to depend only on the discontinuities in the longitudinal rate of change of the cross-sectional area, and is thus independent of cross-sectional shape . the drag itself is unchanged if the direction of the flow is reversed . the expressions for lift and moment assume the same forms as for smooth pointed bodies, the lift depending only on conditions at the base of the body . the general theory is applied to winged bodies of revolution with an unswept wing leading edge .. the results bear a marked resemblance to those obtained by ward . the results for wings alone are seen to be applicable, with one modification, to subsonic as well as to supersonic speeds .
147|supersonic flow past slender pointed wings with ?similar? cross sections at zero lift .|supersonic flow past slender pointed wings with ?similar? cross sections at zero lift . some recent theoretical work on slender pointed wings at zero lift is co-ordinated and extended . the wings considered may have any pointed plan form shape, provided that the trailing edge is straight and unswept . the root section profile and cross-section shapes are arbitrary, provided that, on any one wing, the latter are /descriptively similar/ (diamond or parabolic biconvex for instance), though not necessarily geometrically similar . the chief aim of the work is to find wings with simple geometry, low wave drag and pressure distributions which are unlikely to be seriously affected by viscous effects . wave drag and pressure distributions are calculated by slender-wing theory . general formulae, which are both simple and instructive, are given for the wave drag and the overall pressure distribution, with particular emphasis on the root pressure distribution . results for a number of wings of special interest are presented and discussed .
148|on displacement thickness .|on displacement thickness . four alternative theoretical treatments of 'displacement thickness', and, generally, of the influence of boundary layers and wakes on the flow outside them, are set out, first for two-dimensional, and then for three-dimensional, laminar or turbulent, incompressible flow . they may be called the methods of 'flow reduction', 'equivalent sources', 'velocity comparison' and the principal expression obtained for the displacement thickness in three-dimensional flow may be written if, as orthogonal coordinates (x,y) specifying position on the surface, we choose x as the velocity potential of the external flow, and y as a coordinate, constant along the external-flow streamlines, such that h dy is the distance between (x,y) and z is the distance from the surface, u and v are the x and y components of velocity, and u takes the value u just outside the boundary layer .
